

	Callingraphy
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
About Taj Mahal
‘The Taj’ DIVINE | Scripting the Taj Esteem

                        CALLIGRAPHY, INSCRIPTION AND DECORATION
                    
The calligraphy on the Great Gate reads _
"O SOUL, THOU ART AT REST. RETURN TO THE LORD AT PEACE WITH HIM, AND HE AT PEACE WITH YOU."
Arabic inscriptions in black marble are used to decorate both the south gateway and main mausoleum. The black marble lettering is inlaid into white marble scroll-like borders that frame the architectural features. Sweeping letters and a strong emphasis on horizontal and vertical strokes create an almost grid-like effect in places.
The exquisite and highly skilled Parchin kari work was developed by Mughal lapid artists from techniques taught to them by Italian craftsmen employed at court. The look of European herbals, books illustrating botanical species was adapted and refined in Mughal Parchin kari work.
Throughout the complex, passages from the Quran are used as decorative elements. Recent scholarship suggests that the passages were chosen by a Persian calligrapher Abdul-Haq, who came to India from Shiraz Iran, in 1609. As a reward for his "dazzling virtuosity", Shah Jahan gave him the title of "Amanat Khan".
This is supported by an inscription near the lines from the Quran at the base of the interior dome that reads "Written by the insignificant being, Amanat Khan Shirazi." The texts refer to themes of judgement and include:
The Surah Relates to:
Surah 36
Ya Sin
Surah 39
The Crowds
Surah 48
Victory
Surah 67
Dominion
Surah 77
Those Sent-forth
Surah 81
The Folding Up
Surah 82
The Cleaving Asunder
Surah 84
The Rending Asunder
Surah 89
Daybreak
Surah 91
The Sun
Surah 93
Morning Light
Surah 94
The Solace
Surah 95
The Fig
Surah 98
The Evidence
Surah 112
The Purity of Faith
The text is written in the 'thuluth' script, in a style associated particularly with the Persian calligrapher, Amanat Khan, who was resident at the Mughal court. His signature appears in colophons within the marble inscriptions helped in charting The Taj datelines as well.
Abstract forms are used throughout, especially in the plinth, minarets, gateway, mosque, jawab and, to a lesser extent, on the sur faces of the tomb. The domes and vaults of the sandstone buildings are worked with tracery of incised painting to create elaborate geometric forms.
Much of the calligr aphy is composed of flor id thuluth script, made of jasper or black marble, inlaid in white mar ble panels. Higher panels are wr itten in slightly larger script to reduce the skewing effect when viewed from below. The calligraphy found on the marble cenotaphs in the tomb is particular ly detailed and delicate.
Herringbone inlays define the space between many of the adjoining elements. White inlays are used in sandstone buildings, and dark or black inlays on the white marbles. Mortared areas of the marble buildings have been stained or painted in a contrasting colour, creating geometric patterns of consider able complexity. Floors and walkways use contr asting tiles or blocks in tessellation patterns.
The inlay stones are of yellow marble, jasper and jade, polished and levelled to the surface of the walls. 
On the lower walls of the tomb there are white marble dados that have been sculpted with realistic bas relief depictions of flowers and vines. The marble has been polished to emphasise the exquisite detailing of the car vings and the dado frames and archway spandrels have been decorated with pietra dura inlays of highly stylised, almost geometric vines, flowers and fruits.
As historians suggest that Amanat Khan was responsible not only for the design of the script but also for the choice of text. The texts chosen refer broadly to themes of judgement and par adisiacal rewards for the faithful. The inscription over the gateway invites the reader to enter Paradise, the abode of the faithful and reward for the righteous.
The majority of the text is taken from the Qur'an. There are twenty two passages in all, including fourteen whole chapters, some of which are read out as part of the Islamic funeral ceremony itself.
The inscriptions on the exterior walls of the tomb leave one in no doubt about the impending doom that awaits unbelievers on the Day of Judgements.
Inside the mausoleum, the tone is more reassur ing in places, with lengthy descriptions of Paradise adorning some of the walls.
The central focus is provided by passages on the upper cenotaph of Mumtaz Mahal.
The words of the Qur'anic prayer, recited by angels, implore Allah to allow the faithful to enterParadise, a touching request for God's mercy towards his devout servant, Mumtaz Mahal.
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
