
  
Opinions | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Opinions
Within a few years of starting functioning, IIIT-Delhi gathered a good name in the academic circle, especially in India. Below are some verbatim comments from eminent academicians who have interacted regularly with IIIT-Delhi.
It is great that India has created another first rate educational institution. I hope others will follow your example of striving for excellence in education and research. - John Hopcroft, Professor, Computer Science Department, Cornell University
I have been interacting with the Director since the Institute's inception and have seen its vision and faculty develop. I am confident, given the leadership and the high quality faculty the Institute has already recruited, that IIIT-Delhi will be one of the top Institutes for research and education in IT in India within a few years. - Satish K. Tripathi, Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, State University of New York at Buffalo (SUNY Buffalo)
I see IIIT-D coming up in right earnest with innovative programs, and with serious studies and research as its base. It is also addressing all round development of the student through critical thinking, reading, and social work. - Rajeev Sangal, Director, IIIT Hyderabad
I am following the development of IIIT-Delhi very closely. It stands out for the planning, attention to detail, and a very personalized approach to recruitment that the Director of the Institute is bringing to this exercise. Creation of an institution of excellence is like a marathon run. The run has just started, and has started well. The toughest middle miles are still a long distance away. I am confident they can be run provided the Institute does not lose sight of the objectives and goals it has established. Good luck.- S. N. Maheshwari, Professor of Computer Science and Ex-Dean, IIT Delhi
The most important parameter of success of an institute is the quality of faculty it attracts. IIIT-Delhi has done an excellent job of recruiting high quality faculty in a very short time, and is already competing successfully with well established institutes in terms of attracting faculty. I am confident that the Institute will reach great heights as it matures further.- Sanjeev K Aggarwal, Professor of Computer Science and Dean, IIT Kanpur
In today's knowledge economy, expansion of research and high quality education capacity is an imperative for any nation aspiring for high economic growth. IIIT-Delhi is championing the model of self-sustainability, which has huge potential for scalability. From what I have seen in the last two years on how IIIT-Delhi is going about establishing its research and teaching programs, 'I am excited' is an understatement. - M. Balakrishnan, Professor of Computer Science and Deputy Director, IIT Delhi
In a short time IIITD has brought together a strong internationally-trained multidisciplinary faculty with varied experience. Given the pace of CS/IT, these are wonderful leading indicators for a great institution in the making. And, the plans its Director has are sure to bear fruit in light of such faculty and supporting infrastructure that is being brought together. - Krithi Ramamritham, Professor of Computer Science and ex-Dean, IIT Bombay
IIIT-Delhi is the newest amongst the IIITs. Though it has been in the existence for only 3 years, it has already started making waves. It has been able to attract excellent faculty, start strong research programs, have a great curriculum, and everything else that you would want from a good institution.- Dheeraj Sanghi, Professor, Computer Science and Engineering, IIT-Kanpur
Last updated: 05-09-2021
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
