
  
Placement Procedure & Policies | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Placement Procedure & Policies
Placement Procedure
The Placement office (nodal point for placements & Internship at IIITD) sends invitations to companies/organizations along with relevant information.
Company/ Organization fills in a JAF (Job Announcement Form) containing details of the job offer (pay package, location, allowances and other bonuses). Along with the preferred dates of campus visit.
The duly filled JAFs should be sent to Placement Cell (rashmil@iiitd.ac.in).
Placement Office allots dates to companies for campus interviews based on various details given by companies. The company/ organization confirms the dates with the Placement Office.
Companies come down to the campus on the allotted date/s and conduct PPT /tests and/or interviews according to their recruitment process.
The company/ organization is required to furnish the final list of selected students on the same day of campus visit.
The company should hand over the duly signed hard copy of the final selection list to the placement cell.
In case the company is unable to declare the result on the same day, then the student is allowed to participate in other companies & the final status will depend upon who declares the result first.
The purview of the Placement Cell is restricted only to the offers made as part of the campus placement process.
The company shall provide the offer letters to the Placement office and not directly to the students.
* The Job Announcement Form provides the primary basis of communicating the details of the positions offered to the candidates. 
          It is therefore, highly desirable that the Form is completed in all respects and it would be advantageous if it were accompanied by 
          relevant company literature/JD.
  
Classification of Company
Will be based on compensation packages, relationship & record of recruitment at IIIT-Delhi
A+ Category: CTC >= 12.5 Lacs per Annum
A Category: 7 Lacs > CTC <= 12 Lacs per Annum
**Companies are allotted dates based on the above parameters.
Job Offer for a student
If a student's name appears on the final shortlist declared after the Company's process through the Placement Cell, then that would be considered as an Offer to the student.
A student will be out of campus placement process if he/she gets an offer from A+ Category Company.
The student is allowed to upgrade for an A+ Category company only.
PPO Offer is considered as Job Offer; hence the same policy is applicable.
Student Eligibility
All registered students graduating from the institute are eligible to participate in the placement activities.
A student can participate in the placement process of a company subject to the following conditions:
The cell has confirmed his/her registration.
He/ She meets the requirements/eligibility criteria specified
            
By the company and
By the placement policy
Once a student is selected/ made an offer by A+ company, he/she is out of the campus placement process.
Acceptance of an Offer
Offer from A+ Category Company is deemed to be accepted & the student is out of campus placement process.
A time period will be declared where students have to inform the Cell regarding his/her decision on the offer.
The placement cell will send an official confirmation mail to the companies regarding the acceptance or rejection by end of March each year .
A student who has accepted an offer is expected to join on the given joining date.
If a student does not join after he/she has accepted the offer a penalty will be imposed by the institute.
Non Acceptance due to further studies
If  a student does not accept an offer due pursuing higher studies (in India or Abroad),in this situation the student needs to inform the placement cell as soon as possible (latest by March end ) along with the letter/offer received by the university.
No penalty of any kind will be imposed, if the above is reported to the placement office in the defined time line.
If a student does not inform the Placement Cell regarding his/her decision in person and in writing within the declared time period, then it will 
            be deemed as rejection of the offer & the penalty will be imposed.
Last updated: 21-09-2023
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
