

	Night View
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
Home
Visiting the Taj Mahal during Full Moon Nights - An Experience like no other in the World
“Only let this one tear-drop, this Taj Mahal, glisten spotlessly bright on the cheek of time, forever and ever.” - Rabindranath Tagore
The Taj Mahal is considered one of the most romantic monuments in the world. Built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan after the death of his beloved wife Mumtaz Mahal, this white marble mausoleum is considered a monument to eternal love.
Night viewing of Taj Mahal is available on five days in a month i.e. on full moon night and two nights before and two nights after the full moon.
Where to buy Taj Mahal Night Viewing Tickets?
BUY ONLINE TICKETS CLICK HERE

                             Night Viewing Timing: 20:30 hrs. to 00.30 hrs.
                             in 8 batches of max. 50 people each. Time duration for each batch is half an hour (30 minutes). Tourists have to report half an hour before the viewing time mentioned on their 
                            ticket at Shilpgram for security checks. Please note every one has to have ones i.d. during visit.
                        
Note: Tourists are advised to contact their travelagent/hotel/tourist offices/Archiological Surver of India/visit - http://www.asiagracircle.in
                            Tourists must reach at Shilpgram (near Eastern gate of Taj Mahal) half an hour before the scheduled time mentioned on their tickets for security checks.
                        
Taj Mahal Night View Ticket Price
Adult -
Rs. 510/- (Indian)
Adult -
Rs. 750/- (Foreigner)
Child (3-15 years) - both Indian & Foreigner
Rs. 500/-
TAJ MAHAL NIGHT VIEWING TICKETS
Night Viewing of the Taj Mahal is closed on every Friday & in the month of Ramzan.
The Taj Mahal, for which even the course of the river Yamuna is said to have been diverted, can best be described in the words of the Noble Laureate Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, 
"A tear drop in the face of eternity."
                            "No wonder if millions of people chose it to be amongst the World’s top wonders."
                        
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
