

	Bateshwar Fair - 2022
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
Home
Please Note - No  Cattle fair is organised this year due to lumpy virus infaction in animals.
(Best days to visit Religious Fair: 4th Nov to 11th Nov 2022)
Bateshwar, an ancient temple complex and an important spiritual and cultural centre for Hindus, is located at a distance of 70 Km from the city of Taj , Agra. The place is named after the presiding deity of the region BATESHWAR MAHADEV (another name of Lord Shiva). The temple complex consists of more than 100 temples dedicated to lord Shiva. The temples are all lined along the crescent shaped curve of the river-front and several have ghats (steps) leading down to the water. Said to be the birthplace of Lord Krishna’s mother, Bateshwar is associated with numerous myths and legends. Several ancient scriptures refer to it as Surajpur in honour of its founder Raja Suraj Sen, Lord Krishna’s grandfather.
Bateshwar is an important part of the Hindu pilgrimage circuit and is referred to as the ‘son of the Dhams’ – it must be visited once after all four Dhams considered sacred by Hindus (Badrinath in the North, Rameshwaram in the South, Dwarka in the West and Jagannath Puri in the east) have been visited.
Bateshwar is also the birthplace of the 22 nd Jain Tirthankar Nemichand and is an important pilgrimage site for both the sects of Jain devotees, Digambar and Shwetambar. Several beautiful and intricately carved Jain temples add to the glory of Bateshwar dedicated to the Tirthankar here and at Shauripur , 3 km away from this place.
BATESHWAR CATTLE / ANIMAL FAIR

                            Every year a large cattle fair is held at Bateshwar (the exact dates depends on the lunar calendar and vary each year ). 
                             It coincides with the most auspicious period for praying at Bateshwar and is an important fixture for saints, Sadhus, tradesmen and villagers alike. The fair attracts large numbers of Camels, Horses, oxen, elephants , goats, and other cattle, as well as a multitude of tradesmen selling everything from traditional cooking utensils and spices to locally made furniture, handicrafts and cosmetics. The fair provides a colorful, vibrant and entirely authentic glimpse of rural Indian life. Bateshwar fair is one of the largest fairs in Northern India. It stands similar in style and magnitude as compared to the Pushkar Fair in Rajasthan. This fair usually starts few days prior to DEEPAWALI (a festival of lights) for a period of almost three weeks. The first week has the animal fair starting with cattle followed by the camels and horses and ending with the donkeys and goats. And in the last week the village fair starts with a multitude of shops and fair ground rides and other attractions as well as special ceremonies in the temples
                        

                                    Your browser does not support the video tag.
                                

                                    Your browser does not support the video tag.
                                

                                    Your browser does not support the video tag.
                                
HOW TO REACH : - Come to Agra and drive approximately 2 hours (70 Km ) on Agra to Bah Road and take a turn to left from Farera Tri Crossing drive another 07 Km and you reach to Bateshwar.
                        
ACCOMMODATION : -
Chambal Safari Lodge (Private Accommodation) 10 km from Bateshwer Mob: 9997066002
A number of budget, medium and high class luxurious hotels are available in Agra.
NEAREST EXCURSION: - Chambal Sanctuary Sanctuary (just 10 Km from Bateshwar) an opportunity to explore the natural, cultural and historical heritage of the Chambal Valley. More then 600 Sq kilometres stretch of the river was designated as the National Chambal Sanctuary and given protected areas status. The sanctuary currently boasts of 242 species of resident and migratory bird species, Marsh crocodiles (muggers), gharial (gavials), eight species of turtles, and Gangetic dolphins.
Do not miss this opportunity to experience the ancient land full of rich heritage, spiritualism, history, culture, legends, ravines, wildlife and much more!
Contact us for more details at : - 
U.P.Tourism,
                            64, Taj Road, Agra,
                        
Tel : +91-562-2226431, 2421204
e-mail : agrauptourism@gmail.com,
Website : www.uptourism.gov.in
                            | www. tajmahal.gov.in
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
