
  
About IIIT-Delhi | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
About IIIT-Delhi
Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology Delhi (IIIT-Delhi) was created by an act of Delhi legislature empowering it to carry out R&D, conduct educational programs, and grant degrees. The General Council is the apex body of the Institute, chaired by Hon'ble Lt. Governor of Delhi and the Board of Governors is the policy and decision-making body of the Institute. The Senate is empowered to take all academic decisions.
IIIT-Delhi is accelerating on the path of becoming one of the leading comprehensive research-led teaching institutes in India and has proven to be consistently responsive towards the evolving needs of society. The faculty members at IIIT-Delhi are among the finest in the country and are internationally recognized. Carrying out cutting-edge research is in the institutional DNA of IIIT-Delhi.
  
Information Brochure      Growth Report
IIIT-Delhi has six academic departments - Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Computational Biology, Human-Centred Design, Mathematics, and Social Sciences & Humanities. Its research centres include the Infosys Centre for Artificial Intelligence, Centre for Computational Biology, Centre for Design and New Media - supported by the TCS Foundation, Centre of Technology in Policing, Centre of Sustainable Mobility, Centre of Excellence for Lifi/VLC, and Centre of Excellence in Healthcare.
IIIT-Delhi has set-up the Technology Innovation Hub (TiH), under the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems. This Technology Innovation Hub is focussed on catalysing state-of-the-art research, development, technology transfers, engagement with industry and entrepreneurial activities. IIITD is also a part of the Delhi Science and Technology cluster and is addressing some of the hyperlocal problems through research.
The Institute has a healthy innovation ecosystem leading to entrepreneurship. The IIITD-Incubation Centre is instrumental in driving growth of entrepreneurial activities at IIITD campus, including providing incubation support, funding, infrastructure, mentoring etc. to students, faculty members and alumni of the Institute. The Incubation Centre is supported by funds from DST, MEITY, and the Delhi government.
IIITD is committed towards Sustainable Development Goals as well. In support of the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development Goals, the Institute hosts an Annual Conclave to create a public platform to discuss the use of information technology for the sustainable development of the national capital region.
IIITD in Numbers 20-21      IIITD in Numbers 21-22
IIIT-Delhi is accorded 12-B status by the University Grants Commission. It is ranked #4 among all universities in India in the Times Higher Education world university rankings 2021 and #4 among all technical schools in India in the Dataquest T-School rankings 2021. The Institute was awarded 'Excellence in Faculty' in the 7th Higher Education Excellence Awards 2021 by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI).
The Institute takes pride in maintaining a green campus and has been awarded the AICTE clean and smart campus award three times in a row. IIIT-Delhi has a built-up area of 100,000 square meters. This includes a modern Seminar Block, R&D Block, state-of-the-art classrooms, research labs, a Library and Information Centre, Incubation Centre, newly-constructed hostels for boys and girls to accommodate 1800+ students, dining and student activity centre with multiple eateries including a 24-hour canteen, and Faculty residence blocks. The campus also has a multipurpose playing field, a gymnasium, indoor badminton and squash courts, outdoor tennis courts, basketball and volleyball courts, and an indoor swimming pool. The campus incorporates several green-building features and is GRIHA rated, zero-discharge campus with sewage treatment plants, rainwater harvesting, heat pumps, and solar power plant on terraces of all new buildings.
IIIT-Delhi is committed to playing a leadership role in research, teaching and entrepreneurial activities, both regionally and nationally, and in defining, shaping, and inventing a better tomorrow.  
Last updated: 26-12-2023
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
