

	Agra Fort
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
About Taj Mahal
Getting Around Taj
Getting Around Taj | Agra Fort
An era marked by invasions and fortifications, where power was symbolized by grand palaces and grander forts………during such time was built THE AGRA FORT.
Fortification has always been and still is the prerogative of the mighty; the dividing line between the ruler and the ruled.
                        The mighty towers and overwhelming facades instilling fear and awe in the bravest of the brave…….yet there were the few who overcame the daunting adversities and made their mark in history, a signature ……. that still exists.
                        Structures built as a sign of prowess remind us all of the grit and valour of the brave men and women who captured, destroyed and built such overwhelming edifices.
The Agra Fort, also known as the “Lal –Qila”, “Fort Rouge” or “Qila-i-Akbari”, is the highlight of the city of Agra, then capital of the Mughal Sultanate .
A symbol of power, strength and resilience, as it stands today in full glory.
Entry to Agra Fort
The entry to Agra Fort is allowed through the Amar Singh Gate only. Some portion of this fort is used by the Indian Army. The public access to that part has been prohibited. So you can not see that area. 
However as this fort is very expansive and contains many buildings that are worth a visit so you can very well check them out.
On visiting the Agra Fort, you will come across Diwan-i-Am or the Hall of Public Audience. This hall with numerous pillars is said to be erected by Shah Jahan in the year 1628. On heading little forward, you will see Royal Pavilions abounding in elegant mosques including Nagina Masjid and Mina Masjid, palaces like Macchi Bhavan, Khas Mahal, Shish Mahal and Shah Jahani Mahal and the Zenana Mina Bazaar.
On a visit to Agra Fort, you will be attracted to the intricate carvings and the pure marbles that are used in its making. Besides, the breathtaking views of the Yamuna River and Taj Mahal from the balconies of the pavilions will leave you absolutely mesmerized.
Ticketing
Open : Sunrise to sunset.
Distance about: 5.5 Kms from Agra Cantt Railway Station.
                            
Entry fee at Agra Fort
S.No.
Tourist Type
Amount (Rs.) (Inclusive of ASI & ADA fees )
1.
Foreign Tourist
Rs. 650/-
Friday - Rs. 600/-
2.
Domestic/Indian Tourist
Rs. 50/-
Friday - Rs. 40/-
Note-
Please keep your ID with you.
No Entry fee for children below the age of 15 years.
Do's and Don'ts
Water bottle is allowed inside the monument. Half Litre water bottle and Tourist Guide Map of Agra.
Do's
                                            
Tourists must co-operate in keeping the monument neat & clean by using dustbins.
Tourists are advised to hire approved guides & photographers who exhibit their identity cards.
Taj Museum inside Taj Mahal Complex opens from 10.00 AM to 5.00 PM, entry free.
No Polluting vehicles are allowed within 500 mts. radius of Taj Mahal. Parking Facility is available at Shilpgram
Don'ts
                                            
Drone camera is strictly prohibited inside the Taj Mahal.
Eating and smoking is strictly prohibited inside Taj Mahal. Arms, ammunitions, fire, smoking items, tobacco products, liquor, eatables (Toffees), head phones, knives, wire, mobile charger, electric goods (except camera), Tripods are also prohibited.
Mobile phones are to be kept switched off or on silent mode.
Please avoid carrying big bags and books inside the monument, this may increase your security check time.
Photography is prohibited inside the main mausoleum.
No Polluting vehicles are allowed within 500 mts. Radius of Taj Mahal. Parking Facility is available at Shilpgram
Avoid touching & scratching the walls & surfaces of the monument as these are heritage sites and need special care.
Visitors are requested not to make noise inside the mausoleum.
Above mentioned list of prohibited items along with mobile phones are  banned for night viewing of the Taj Mahal. Video camera, extra batteries are prohibited though still camera is permitted after the security check.
Photo Gallery
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
