

	Soami Bagh
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
Nearby Attractions
Getting Around Taj
Biography  of Soamiji Maharaj
Param Purush Puran  Dhani Soamiji Maharaj, incarnation of Radhasoami Dayal, descended on earth to  emancipate human beings from sufferings,in his Mercy and Grace, on the night of  the eighth day of the dark half of Bhadon, in the  Hindu year 1875 vikram samvat corresponding  to night between 24-25 August 1818 A.D at panni gali,Agra, in the seth clan of  khatris. he was given the name, Shiv Dayal Singh Seth.
His father dilwali singh was a disciple of Sant tulsi saheb of  Hathras who had told the parents of Soamiji Maharaj that  a highly spritiual soul has been born to  them.Tulsi saheb, during a visit to their house, had advised “treat your son  with high reverence as He is a great soul”.
Soamiji Maharaj, even at a tender age,when all children want  to play, used to unravel the deep secrets of celestial world, which even the  persons, who were masters in Shastras and Vedas could not do .he used to  perform yoga of Shabd & Spirit.
Soamiji Maharaj was married to Radhaji , daughter of Ijjat Rai  from Faridabad, Haryana. Radhaji was a virtuous lady & believed in service  to mankind. She was a devoted lady & untiring & selfless worker. She  was a lady saint in her own right.

                            Soamiji maharaj had a towering pleasant personality and had a  mystic glow on his face. His personality attracted visitors like a magnet and  his simple explanations of complex religious issues directly hit the right  chords in the minds of listeners. His lucid and simple heart touching  explanations to the complex problems attracted huge congregations. His voice  was firm and sweet and his preaching attracted the masses.
                            
                            Soamiji maharaj, in January 1861, promulgated the Radhasoami  faith on Basant Panchmi Day, on the special request of his beloved disciple,  Rai Bahadur Saligram (Second Sant sat Guru of Radhasoami Faith).
                        

                            The disciples increased ever since and Soamiji Maharaj had to  move the Satsang to the outskirts of Agra, at Soami Bagh, as panni gali was to  small to accommodate the worshipers.
                            There were many Sadhus,  Satsangis and Satsangins, who did selfless sewa, Satsang Sumiran, Dhyan and  Bhajan, with love and affection, under the guidance of soamiji maharaj. His  favourite disciples had been Rai Bahadur Salig Ram, Lala pratap singh and  scores of other santsangis and satsangins like Shibboji, Bukki ji, Bishnoji  etc.
                        
Soamiji Maharaj wrote two holy books, which from the basic  tenets of the Radhasoami faith. One is ‘Sar Bachan (Poetry)’ printed in two  volumes, and the second is ‘ Sar Bachan (Prose)’ in part 1 and 2, a collection  of various Bachans He gave in Satsang and during walking and talking sessions  which various Satsangis wrote down and printed.
Soamiji Maharaj departed for Nij Dham on June 15, 1878, (Asad  Badi Padwa Vikram Samvat 1935) at Panni Gali, Agra.
On  November 1, 1894 (Kartik Sudi 4 Vikram Samvat  1951), Param Mata Radhaji Maharaj left for nij dham and her last remains viz  Holy Ashes were also Kept in Holy Samadh by Second Sant Sat Guru Huzur Maharaj.
Thus Holy Samadh stores the invaluable treasure of the  universe, for the devotees of Radhasoami faith. Holy Samadh is thus the most  revered place in cosmos. 
Radhasoami  faith and its Tenets
As per Radhasoami Faith, the deliverance  of sprit from the bondages of mind and matter, the body & senses, and its  gradual ascension and eventual entrance into the first or highest division, is  perfect salvation.
The elevation of surat to its original  abode is possible with Surat Shabd Yoga, which Merciful Radhasoami Dayal  explained in detail, showing the route, various stopovers on the way, and  detailed description of various places on the way, the deities of these  stop-overs and the accompanying sound etc.
Having descended from the highest or  first region, the surat (spirit) has in its present state become encased in  material coverings and in a manner, intermingled with matter and is in third  region subject to the forces resulting from such admixture.it has thereby lost  its powers of discrimination and intelligence and has become subject to carnal  desires & passions. As long as it remains in the second & third  divisions where mind & matter exist it cannot be free from future births in  the lower or higher regions. It is only in the first or highest division where  mind & matter do not exit that there is no re birth. There is everlasting  conscious state of Love & bliss.
According  to Maharaj Saheb, the third Sant Sat      Guru of Radhasoami Faith the object of religion is as follows:

                            “When  the spirit gains admission into purely spritiual regions of Supreme Creator,  then it becomes immortal, freed from pain and opposition of every description, and  remains absorbed in everlasting rapture of the supreme bliss, of the majestic  vision of the supreme Creator”
                        

                            Religion  of faith leads a true seeker back to the higher spiritual regions traversing  the way by performing prescribed method of practicing Surat Shabd Yoga, under  guidance of Sant Sat Guru or an adept or a Satsangi who has already travelled  some distance, but has yet to reach the final destination. Religion seeks Truth  and nothing but the truth. All paths lead to higher spiritual regions. All sub  division of grand creation are images of each other, but each has got different  power, period of existence, different power, period of existence, different  name and deity. True Religion helps you to distinguish them and select the  correct one.
                            Truth  is God and God is Truth. Truth or ‘Sat’ is essence of all religions.
                        
Radhasoami  faith alone can provide solace to a wandering spirit. This is a pure spiritual  faith, and those who want to have salvation of spirit or “Surat”, can atain it  if they do practice under a true guide or adept and obey his orders entirely.  It prescribes the “Surat Shabd Yoga” viz union of spirit with sound. Sound is  like a reservoir and the creator of total creation, While “Surat” or spirit is  a drop of this reservoir viz. part of it. Thus “Surat” has natural affinity for  sound. The Surat descended on earth with the sound and will reach its  destination in celestial world when it rises above, in celestial skies with  sound. Only impediment is that it is in a state of inertia, due to proximity  and bondages of kal and his companion maya. The saint or Sant Sat Guru has a  unique position in the faith and without Guru, salvation cannot be achieved and  he is called incarnation of supreme father. It requires a devotee to do the  worship the Sant sat guru of the time and develop true love for his Lotus feet.  This is a faith based on love and devotion, and will break the shackles of  materialistic bondages which tie you to the world and restrict your spirit of  surat to awaken, arise and start its travel to worlds your real home. Only a  true guide can give you the true name, which when recited with love, can open  the gates of the inner mind. Once your spirit is awakened, you will go towards  the destination viz. point of orgin i.e. to Nij Dham, accompanied with the  sound. Your spirit will feel only ecstatic Bliss, When it reaches destination.
Things  which differentiate Radhasoami faith from the rest are that it does not forbid  family life nor ask anyone to leave his job or business and become a recluse.  Restraint and avoidance of excessive indulgence in worldly comforts and sensory  pleasures is the divine directive, so as to concentrate on awakening of his  “Surat”.
According  to Radhasoami faith, the supreme being is formless, unfathonable, endless,  nameless, omnipresent, all powerful, merciful, all knowledgeable, full of bliss  and peace, mercy, grace, etc. when he manifests, He is known as Sat Purush  Radhasoami. Soamiji Maharaj was supreme Being incarnate. Living Sant Sat Gurus  in the ‘Radhasoami’. The Basic ingredient required is to surrender to the Sat  Guru By Body, Mind and soul, with Love and bliss. Sat Guru is the source of  infinite Spirituality. 
Supreme  father is a vast ocean of pure spirit. He is perfect, Sufficient & complete  in himself and was immersed in himself. He is an ocean of love and a vast  reservoir of love and bliss. Love was the essence of his nature and everything  He and reflected was Love & Love alone. He does not use force or cajole to  fall in line with him.

                            Love  is sublime and has its origin in the highest spiritual regions. Without true  love, no form of devotion gives the desired results. Love, and alone, is the ingredient  which changes the very fabric of devotion into true Bhakti, which when worn by  Surat, enables it to become dearer to the beloved Shabd or Sound.
                            The  Supreme Father is an ocean; love is a natural phenomenon and there is a bond or  link between the two as both are form one origin. Love is limitless and knows  no boundaries. Love does not take any restrictions and cannot be bound by any  bondages or conditions of the world.
                        
Love  is always ready to sacrifice anything for sake of the beloved. No sacrifice is  bigger for seeking admission before the beloved Supreme Father.

                            All  the riches of the world are worthless before one glimpse of the beloved Lord.  True love crosses all hurdles to meet the beloved. Every wave of love rising in  the Lover’s heart, brings tidings of goodness and boundless joy and every  thought which is springing up in the heart is a harbinger of noble deeds.
                            Only  self-love brings egotism and pride, and sows the seeds of hatred &  jealousy, while tru love brings humility & humbelness and makes the surat  viz. spirit dearer to supreme father.
                        

                            Radhasoami  Faith is not for rituals and rejects any symbolic devotion, and does not  believe in ritualism and rationalism or customs or myths . The only  mention about Hindu deities is that these are  all in the second grand Division and are thus in spheres of lower spirituality,  and therefore cannot be the abode of the supreme being. Only what is true has  been revealed by Soamiji Maharaj.
                            In  summary, the four pillars of Radhasoami Faith are follows :-           
                        
Sant  Satguru.
Sat  Nam or True Name.
Satsang  (External Satsang) and Surat Shabd Yoga (Internal Satsang).
Sat  Anurag or True Love and devotion in Holy feet of Sant Satguru.
Sant  Satguru is ther corner stone of Sant Mat. Without the presence of Sant Satguru  the devotee can not ascend his spirit in the ethereal sky. The sewa of Sant  Satguru washes away your Egoism, Greed, Endearment, Anger and Sensual Desires  and makes you clean and pious for receiving the Holy Name.
Short  Note on Holy Samadh
Holy  samadh, under construction at Soami bagh, Agra by disciples of Radhasoami Faith,  is being built with love, affection and devotion, to the memory of Param Purush  Puran Dhani Soamiji Maharaj, the august Founder of Faith.
After  the departure of Soamiji Maharaj, the Second Sant Sat Guru, Hujur Maharaj,  built a red stone structure at the place where Soamiji Maharaj used to deliver  sermons and performs satsang at times. Although the structure was sufficient to  accommodate  all devotees at that time,  The third Sant Sat Guru, Maharaj Saheb was of the view that it is very small  and cannot accommodate Satsangis of Radhasoami Faith, as The Faith is expanding  and he proposed demolition of the structure   and rebuilt a grand marble structure, which can accommodate all the  Satsangis.
As such, the work of design was given to  an Italian architect M/s. Firzoni & Co. based at Kanpur. Basic parameters  of satsang hall and 15’ Verandah on all sides etc were given by Maharaj Saheb.  Old red Stone Structure was demolished and rubble was utilized in Holy Samadh  only. The structure was placed on 52 wells, ranging from 4’to 10’10’’ dia  wells. Lala Totaram Ji, holy Samadh Engineer Proposed changes and the structure  was planned on a raised platform of 220’X220’, which was approved by BabuJi  Maharaj, fourth Sant Sat Guru of the Faith. A scaled model of Holy Samadh was  prepared and kept for use of future engineers. Main Satsang Hall is at GF  level, and the walls are covered with marble engravings of Shabds and Bachans  from Radhasoami Faith, covered the gold. The canopy at the center stores the  Holy ashes of Soamiji Maharaj and Radhaji Maharaj. The false ceiling is of  carved teak wood and coloumns are in gold leaf work.
The first floor is having eye catching,  mesmerizing and artistic carving in column capitals, up-to a depth of 14”, of  trees , flowers and creepers. To make the hall circular, 4 corner & 4  central arches are installed at second floor and the circular ring beam is  having 10’carved natural sceneries engraved at 75’ height. On the top of it is a  Balcony at 85’ giving a mystic view. The walls of 9465 MT of double dome are  having rows of flowers and a lotus flower is at the center of the inner dome. A  31’4” high copper kalsh, weighing 6.0 MT with SS pipe, covered With 24 carat  Gold leaves, Gives an unforgettable   view. Outer Dome is having a net design , which leaves an enchanting  impression on viewer. Holy Samadh work is 95 % complete except some minor Works  in the front and Keshwas & canal all around. There are four minerates at  corners intermingled with main structure till second floor & above that the  octagonal minarets stand all alone till a height of 141’.Jharokha in front of  is under construction. Total height of outer dome is 161’& including kalash  it is 193’4’’. 
Marble used in Holy Samadh are of  different colors – White, Pink, Green, Yellow and other variegated colours of  distinct shades procured from different parts of india, chiefly Makrana  (jodhpur), Ambaji, Vadodra, Jaislamer, Gwalior & Nowshera (Pakistan).
Semi precious stones for inlay work are procured from the beds  of various rivers such as Narbada and Quarries in Gujarat and South India. The  stones used are Sapphire, Emerland, Cornelian, turquoise, Lapis, Red Coral,  Onyx, Lajward, Khatoo, Yaqut., Rattak etc. 
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
