
  
Why Recruit @ IIITD? | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Why Recruit @ IIITD?
Why Recruit @ IIITD?
                      IIIT-Delhi encourages its students to balance their academics and co-curricular activities. This allows for an all-round development, as evidenced by the numerous projects undertaken and the participation in sports and cultural events. This is evident from the wide repertoire of projects that they have done as well as their participation in sports and cultural events.
                    
                      The institute also encourages the students to showcase their research in national and international conferences and workshops.
                      The students work as Teaching Assistants, guiding and aiding the students in the batches that are junior to them.
                    
  
The Academic Programs
The campus offers the following programs:
B.Tech. in CSE, ECE, CSAM, CSD, CSSS, CSB & CSAI 
M.Tech. in CSE, ECE & CB 
Ph.D. in CSE, ECE & CB 
The Courses are finely refined and fabricated to meet the needs of the versatile industry and latest research areas. The highly qualified, intellectual and technically proficient faculty at IIIT-Delhi fuel the learning process in turn igniting the minds.
Admission Criteria (Details Here) 
B.Tech. Modes of Admission:
Joint Admission Counselling, JAC-Delhi
UCEED rank (Only for some seats in CSD)
Class XII Marks (Only for some seats in CSSS)
M.Tech. Modes of Admission:
For Gate Qualified Students: Gate score + previous Academic record + Interview.
For Non-Gate Students: previous Academic record + Written Test + Interview
Ranking
Click Here 
Our Recruiters
The list of recruiters have grown over the years & we are proud to be associated with them. Please check Here
Our Placements and Internships
» Placements at IIIT-Delhi has seen significant growth over the years. The campus host 100+ companies each year from various segments: IT, CSE, ECE, Research, Consulting & Finance.
» The highest Indian compensation offered generally lies between 30 to 50 Lakhs.Average compensation has been constantly rising with the recently graduated batch of 2023, which is 23.72 Lakhs, with Median salaries between 16 to 18 lakhs.
» The campus has opened doors for various internships which includes summer, winter, and long internships to both final and pre-final year students. The stats are improving with each passing year.
» The campus hosts approx 70+ companies each year offering internship with a stipend ranging between 25 k to 7.1 lakhs per month.
Faculty
» Our faculty can be compared favourably with the best in the country. All regular faculty members of the IIIT-Delhi,  hold  Ph.D., with about two-thirds of them having earned their Ph.D.s from fine institutions across the US and Europe, and almost all having significant global exposure.
» Our faculty have published various national and international journals and conference proceedings (more than 100 of their papers published/accepted last year alone), and organized several workshops, including international.
» Our focus on recruiting world class faculty and strong research programs bodes well for the future of the institute, which is fast emerging as one of the best in the country and also making its presence felt abroad. Faculty at IIIT-Delhi.
Research
» Several Best paper and poster awards in International conferences. Sponsored projects from agencies like DST, DIT, Indo-US foundation, Microsoft, SAP, etc. Many Ph.D. students have received Ph.D. Fellowships like TCS, IBM, Microsoft. Many UG students have also written research papers. We have research groups in areas like: Information Management & Analytics, Security, Mobile Computing, Biometrics, Software Engineering.
Visit Here
Projects
» Projects are an integral part of the education program. Students are required to do group projects/research in many of courses that they are taught. Students are also provided with an option of the independent study which enables them to do research in the field of their interest. 
Last updated: 21-09-2023
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
