

	Dos and Donts
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
Home
Information for Tourists Visiting Taj Mahal
Water bottle is allowed inside the monument. Shoe covers, half Litre water bottle and Tourist Guide Map of Agra, Battery Bus & Golf Cart Service are provided free of cost with the SAARC, BIMSTEC & foreigner’s entry ticket for the Taj. Wheel Chair for Differently abled People & First Aid Box are available at ASI Office at Taj Mahal Ph. No : 0562 - 2330498
Do's
                                            
Tourists must co-operate in keeping the monument neat & clean by using dustbins.
Tourists are advised to hire approved guides & photographers who exhibit their identity cards.
Taj Museum inside Taj Mahal Complex opens from 10.00 AM to 5.00 PM, entry free.
No Polluting vehicles are allowed within 500 mts. radius of Taj Mahal. Parking Facility is available at Shilpgram for east gate entry & at Amrood ka Teela for west gate entry.
From parking to Taj Mahal gate battery buses & golf carts are available.
Don'ts
                                            
Drone camera is strictly prohibited inside and around the Taj Mahal.
Eating and smoking is strictly prohibited inside Taj Mahal. Arms, ammunitions, fire, smoking items, tobacco products, liquor, eatables (Toffees), head phones, knives, wire, mobile charger, electric goods (except camera), Tripods are also prohibited.
Mobile phones are to be kept switched off or on silent mode.
Please avoid carrying big bags and books inside the monument, this may increase your security check time.
Photography is prohibited inside the main mausoleum.
Avoid touching & scratching the walls & surfaces of the monument as these are heritage sites and need special care.
Visitors are requested not to make noise inside the mausoleum.
Above mentioned list of prohibited items along with mobile phones are  banned for night viewing of the Taj Mahal. Video camera, extra batteries are prohibited though still camera is permitted after the security check for night viewing of Taj Mahal.
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
