

	Faqs
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
Home
Here is a list of most frequently asked qustions and answers about Taj Mahal visit. Kindly check this Note for quick answers and before asking a question to our official contacts.
Q: What are the visiting hours of the Taj Mahal and when it remains closed?
Ans: Visiting hours of the Taj Mahal are 30 minutes before sunrise to 30 minutes before sunset & it is closed on every friday while all other monuments and tourist places in Agra are open from Sunrise to Sunset.
                        
Q: Best Time to Visit Taj Mahal & Agra?
Ans: The Taj Mahal is a dynamic image with different beauty as the sunlight alters its color during the day, so technically you can make a visit anytime of the day.
                            However, sunrise is Preferred by most of the tourist as the monument is like a blooming flower when the twilight gilds it with pink color. Moreover, visiting in the early morning you can not only avoid the heat during summer but also the crowds. For those people in pursuit of some perfect shots and don’t want to wait too long, getting up earlier can be very rewarding.

                            However, Sunset visit is also a nice choice. The temperature becomes cool and the monument is surrounded by soft silver light. Usually there are more visitors at sunset than sunrise. Patience is necessary to capture some good pictures.

                            If you happen to be in Agra on the full moon day or 2 days before/after, a night visit to the Taj Mahal is also available. Unlike what you see in the daytime, the silhouette of the structure against the dark sky and moonlight is full of peace and magic.
                            Tickets from night viewing can be bought a day before the viewing date from ASI office, 22 Mall Road, Agra. For full moon dates pleases visit - https://www.asiagracircle.in.
                        
Q: How to get day visit tickets for Taj Mahal?
Ans: Day visit tickets can be bought either from ticket window at both the gates or online on https://www.asiagracircle.in
Best Season to visit – October to March. 
                        
Q: What are the charges of night viewing of the Taj Mahal?
Ans: Charges for a domestic Tourist is Rs 510/- and for a foreigner, it is Rs 750/- per person.
                        
Q: Are there any timings for night viewing of the Taj Mahal?
Ans: Yes, night view is allowed between 20:30 to 00:30 hours only and the duration of visit is 30 minutes.
                        
Q: Where can I get the night viewing tickets from?
Ans: Tickets are available at Archaeological Survey of India, 22 Mall Road, Agra. Ph:0562-2227261/62. You have to buy these tickets a day before the viewing date.
                        
Q:  What is the maximum limit  for night viewing?
Ans: The maximum number of tourists allowed for night viewing are 400, divided in 8 batches of 50 people in each batch.
                        
Q. What else is there  in Agra to see?
                                Ans. Agra is full of tourism potential for tourists. It has three world heritage sites  i.e. Taj Mahal, Agra Fort & Fatehpur Sikri (40 Km). Apart from these heritage sites Agra also has Itimad-ud-daula (baby Taj), Mehtab Bagh, Sikandra, Chini Ka Rauza, Rambagh, Soamibagh, Mariam Tomb and many other heritage  sites, also Taj Nature Walk, Shahjahan Park, Keetham Bird Sanctuary, as excursions  – Bateshwar (70 km), Chambal Sanctuary (80 km), Shoripur (75 km), Mathura (60  km), Firozabad (50 km), Aligarh (85 km) etc etc.
                            
                            For more details please
                            
                            Contact :  0562 –  2226431, info@tajmahal.gov.in
                        
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
