

	The Taj Interiors:: Interior Decoration
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
About Taj Mahal
:: Interior Decoration
‘The Taj’ INTERIORS | Magnificent & Serene
Mausoleum |
                        The Tomb |
                        The Tomb chamber |
                        The Lower Tomb chamber |
                        The Screen And The Cenotaphs |
                        The Decoration Of Upper Cenotaphs |
                        The ambulatory rooms

                            Mausoleum
Also known as Rauza-i-Munauwara, Rauza-i-Muqqadas & Rauza-i-Mutahhara. The mausoleum dominates the entire Taj complex: the architectural effect is that of a strictly ordered progression of elements towards the overwhelming climax of the white marble building. The mausoleum is set at the northern end of the main axis of vast oblong walled complex which descends in hardly noticeable terraced steps towards the river Yamuna. The overall composition is formed of two major components: the mausoleum and its garden, and two subsidiary courtyard complexes to the south.

                            The Tomb
The central focus of the complex is the tomb. This large, white marble structure stands on a square plinth and consists of a symmetrical building with an iwan (an arch-shaped doorway) topped by a large dome and finial. Like most Mughal tombs, the basic elements are Persian in origin. The base structure is essentially a large, multi-chambered cube with chamfered corners, forming an unequal octagon that is approximately 180 feet on each of the four long sides. On each of these sides, a massive pishtaq, or vaulted archway, frames the iwan with two similarly shaped, arched balconies stacked on either side. This motif of stacked pishtaqs is replicated on the chamfered corner areas, making the design completely symmetrical on all sides of the building. Four minarets frame the tomb, one at each corner of the plinth facing the chamfered corners. The main chamber houses the false sarcophagi of Mumtaz Mahal and Shah Jahan; the actual graves are at a lower level.

                            The Tomb Chamber 

                            The mausoleum represents the culmination of the entire Taj complex, so the inner domed hall represents the climax of the mausoleum. It is the final station in the progress towards the tomb of Mumtaz, and that of Shah Jahan. The large hall, together with the lower tomb chamber over the actual burials below and the outer dome above forms the core of the building. Here all the elements, architecture, furniture, and decoration combine to create an eschatological house for Mumtaz Mahal. Even sound was put to the task of eternity, through one of the longest echoes of any building in the world. The hall has the form of a perfect octagon, 24 feet to a side, with two tiers of eight radiating niches. These niches, termed nashiman ('seat'), are equal in size but differentiated in their elevations. In those on the cardinal axes the inner wall is open and fitted with a screen which transmits light into the interior of the hall.
                        
The floor is paved in a geometrical pattern consisting of octagonal stars alternating with pointed cruciform shapes, formed by black marble inlaid in white. Around the whole is a border of lobed cartouches of alternating size. The same border-surrounds the cenotaph of Mumtaz (but not the one of Shah Jahan, which was introduced later), it is a variant of a pattern used repeatedly in the Taj complex, most closely paralleled in the border of the terrace surrounding the platform of the mausoleum. Luxurious vases filled with flowers appear here instead of the individual flowering plants of the pishtaq halls outside. The flowers follow botanical species more closely, and one can identify the Mughal favourites, irises, tulips, daffodils and narcissus. They are naturalistic and seductively beautiful, but at the same time they convey the order of the Shahjahani system.
All vases have the same general shape and all are set on little hills with small flowering plants in mirror symmetry on each side. All bouquets follow the same basic tripartite arrangement, with a dominant flower in the centre flanked by mirror-symmetrical groups on each side.
The dados of the side walls of all the niches display triadic vase groups with dominant tulips. The central vase is distinguished by a voluted ornament attached to its upper body and a different flower arrangement: the central tulip of the bunch has its outer petals curved down, and it is flanked by daffodil-like flowers and lilies with curved-back petals.

                            The Lower Tomb Chamber 
From the southern entrance room a stairway covered with a pointed barrel vault leads down to the lower tomb chamber (not accessible to visitors). The rectangular room is entirely faced with marble and has an undecorated coved ceiling. In the centre stand the two cenotaphs that cover the actual graves; they are similar to those above but have different motifs in their decoration.
The lower cenotaph of Mumtaz Mahal has an almost undecorated platform. Its top is again covered with passages from the Qur'an, expressing related themes, promising God's mercy and forgiveness. On the sides are tiny cartouches containing the Ninety-Nine Beautiful Names of Allah, which express divine attributes such as O King, O Holy, O Peace.
The lower cenotaph of Shah Jahan is also a more simply decorated version of his cenotaph above. The same flowers, namely poppies and plants with yellow lily-like blossoms, appear on the side walls of its sarcophagus element; they are however smaller, and set individually in tiny red cusped cartouches, reflecting the arrangement on the cenotaph of Mumtaz.
The south end displays the epitaph, which is more comprehensive than the version on Shah Jahan's upper cenotaph:
This is the illumined grave and sacred resting place of the emperor, dignified as Rizwan, residing in Eternity, His Majesty, having his abode in [the celestial realm of] Illiyun, Dweller in Paradise (Firdaus Ashiyani) [posthumous title of Shah Jahan], the Second Sahib-i Qiran, Shah Jahan, Padshah Ghazi [Warrior for the Faith]; may it be sanctified and may Paradise become his abode. He travelled from this world to the banquet hall of eternity on the night of the twenty-sixth of the month of Rajab, in the year one thousand and seventy-six Hijri [31 January AD 1666].

                            The Screen and the Cenotaphs
The naturalistic decoration of the interior culminates in the central ensemble of the cenotaphs of Mumtaz and Shah Jahan and the screen that surrounds them. It attracts all visitors today with its spectacular flowers and plants inlaid in semi-precious stones.
The perforated marble screen (mahjar-i mushabbak) was set up in 1643 to replace the original one of enamelled gold made by the goldsmith and poet Bibadal Khan on the occasion of the second anniversary of Mumtaz Mahal's death in 1633, which was obviously deemed too precious. It took ten years to make and cost 50,000 rupees, less than one-tenth of the cost of the gold screen. Since 1994-1995 AD it has been protected from the hands of visitors by an ungainly aluminium grille in a wooden frame.
The screen is octagonal, reflecting on a smaller scale the octagon of the surrounding hall and intensifying the paradisiacal symbolism of the number eight. Overall arrangement and detail follow the principles of Shahjahani system. Each side of the octagon is divided into three by marble frames. The corners are fortified by posts ending in kalasha finials (globes surmounted by a pointed element), an adaptation of a feature of older Indian architecture. The frames are filled with jalis, in which elegantly and intricately wrought plant elements are composed around a central axis - the only instance in the Taj Mahal where jalis are formed of organic plant arabesques rather than geometric forms.
The Indian jali tradition is here brought to one of its highest points. The screen is topped with ornamental crenellations, kanguras, consisting of vase-shaped elements alternating with openwork formed of volutes of acanthus leaves, crowned at their juncture by small vase elements. The entrance arch in the centre of the south side and a corresponding closed arch opposite it in the centre of the north side rise above the screen; they have semicircular heads lined by a moulding terminating in hanging acanthus buds.
Within the screen are the upper cenotaphs of Mumtaz Mahal and Shah Jahan - what Lahauri and Kanbo call surat-i qabr, 'the likenesses of tombs'. As usual in imperial Mughal mausoleums, the actual burials are below, in the lower tomb chamber, under cenotaphs of similar design. The cenotaph of Mumtaz is exactly in the centre of the hall. The larger cenotaph of Shah Jahan was added on its western side, and thus from a formal point of view appears as an afterthought. This placing gave substance to the rumour of the emperor's burial having been planned not within the Taj Mahal but on the opposite side of the Yamuna in a black marble tomb.
The cenotaphs are aligned north-south, with the head to the north. The bodies were laid in their graves below on their side, with their face turned towards Mecca - which in India is to the westso that they would rise in the correct position at the sound of the trumpets at the Last Judgment.
Each cenotaph consists of a single block of stone, shaped like a sarcophagus, set on a stepped plinth which is placed in turn on a wider platform. The cenotaph of Shah Jahan is characterized as a male tomb by the symbol of a pen case on its top. While the cenotaphs conform to an established Mughal type, no other Mughal, nor any other personage in the Islamic world, was commemorated with such exquisite decoration. The lower cenotaph of Jahangir at Lahore is the only one that comes close; it was created at the same time as that of Mumtaz, probably by the same artists. The decoration of the cenotaphs with hardstone inlay was reserved for mem bers of the Mughal imperial family.

                            The Decoration of the Upper Cenotaph Of _ 
Mumtaz Mahal : 
The main decoration consists of inlaid Qur'anic inscriptions. Naturalistic plums are confined to the platform, where two types alternate, between borders of hanging blossoms: one has asymmetrically arranged erect funnel-shaped calyxes and buds, the other a perfectly symmetrical arrangement of seven smaller blossoms and buds; both seem to be inspired by lilies and the upper surface of the platform has a framed flowery scrollwork pattern. Inscribed on the top and the sides of the block are Quran'ic verses in formal Sulus script; their common theme is to comfort the soul (of Mumtaz) with the prospect of Paradise.
The epitaph reads: ‘The illumined grave of Arjumand Bano Begam, entided Mumtaz Mahal, who died in the year 1631’.
Shah Jahan :
The cenotaph of the emperor, installed more than thirty years later, in 1666, is similar to that of Mumtaz in shape and decorative organization, but larger, and entirely covered with flowers and scroll work without any formal inscriptions, The only inscription is the epitaph, positioned like that of Mumtaz. The covering of the Emperor's cenotaph with recognizable poppies are intended to give heightened realism to red flowers as symbols of suffering and death.
The epitaph reads: ‘This is the sacred grave of His Most Exalted Majesty, Dweller in Paradise (Firdaus Ashiyani), Second Lord of the Auspicious. Conjunction (Sahib-i Qiran-i Sani), Shah Jahan, Padshah; may it ever be fragrant! The year 1076 [AD 1666]’.

                            The Ambulatory Rooms ('Shish Mahal') 
The central tomb chamber is surrounded by ambulatory rooms on two storeys, which on all but the southern, entrance, side are separated from it by jalis filled with panes of glass - whence the later name,' Shish Mahal' ('Mirror Palace'). These rooms are not accessible to visitors. Cruciform rooms are set on the cardinal axes and octagonal ones on the diagonal axes.
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
