
  
Our Alumni Testimonials | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Our Alumni Testimonials
Words from Alumni
Meetakshi Sethiya
B.Tech CSE, Class of 2023 (Currently working at Microsoft)
                          Choosing IIITD over other obvious choices has been one of the best decisions I could have made for myself. My journey here has been nothing short of transformative- in a way that has shaped me into a well-rounded individual. Something that I admired since the start was the curriculum; which has been carefully designed to provide a holistic education experience in whatever field a student might wish to explore and faculty who are genuinely passionate about teaching and learning. Students are given opportunities to hone their technical skills, but also learn the intricacies of finance, biology, social sciences. The students are passionate and driven. At any point in time one can see them engaged in not only hackathons and technical projects but also extracurricular activities like event organisation, clubs, sports etc. IIITD’s commitment to academic excellence, its amazing research-driven culture, industry exposure, the beautiful campus and the vibrant campus life has given me the best and most productive four years of my life. The road was tough, no doubt but I have grown a lot- not just academically, but personally too. I will proudly carry the IIIT Delhi legacy wherever I go.   
                        
Aniket Verma
Class of 2023 (Currently working at Adobe)
                          IIIT Delhi offers a transformative experience to its students, equipping them with the necessary skills and knowledge to excel in life. The curriculum is designed to encourage self-growth and exploration, enabling students to push their boundaries and delve into new areas. Practical learning takes precedence, providing valuable insights into real-world project implementation. The college fosters a supportive environment that allows students to venture into diverse fields, such as finance, psychology, and even biological sciences research. The array of opportunities seems limitless, bolstered by unwavering support from the institution. Moreover, the dedicated placement cell tirelessly strives to secure placements across various industries, ensuring students can pursue their passions.    
                        
Garvita Jain
B.Tech CSE, Class of 2022 (Currently working at Goldman Sachs)
                          IIIT Delhi prepares you for life. The courses are designed for you to push yourself and explore things in ways you haven’t before. The primary focus is always on gaining practical knowledge and experience which helps us understand how projects are carried out in the real world. They provide us with opportunities to explore different fields and our interests as well, from finance to psychology or even research in biological sciences for that matter. The opportunities are endless and the support is constant. On top of that, the placement cell works really hard to get companies working in different fields, offering various different profiles so that the students get the opportunity to work in a field they are passionate about.    
                        
Munish Thakral
B.Tech ECE, Class of 2020 (currently working at Reliance Jio)
                          Four years at IIIT Delhi have been one of the best experiences of my life. IIITD prepares you for the world; the competitive environment & continuous deadlines push you beyond your limits and help you understand the value of your work. This, combined with the academic effort to push practical projects into each course, enables you to develop the required skills and develop yourself into a professional being. The faculty at IIITD puts a tremendous amount of effort into making courses more industry oriented so as to prepare us better for the corporate world. The Placement Cell makes a huge effort to get better companies year after year, offering numerous job opportunities in reputed organizations.   
                        
Arjun Tyagi
M.Tech CSE, Class of 2020 (Currently working at Qualcomm)
                          IIITD was the turning point of my life. In my two years of masters in computer science, I don't remember a day when I woke up without a new challenge in hand, IIITD moulds you the way you want from world-class research to the best placements in the country. I would personally like to thank Dr. AV. Subramanyam and all the other faculty who put tremendous efforts. Also, the Placement Cell who works so hard to bring fantastic job opportunities for the students. I am so grateful to be a part of this institute.    
                        
Mayank Rawal
B.Tech ECE, Class of 2020 (Currently working at Future First)
                          My entire tenure at IIIT Delhi has been a life changing experience. The institute provides ample opportunities to support the students to learn about their interests. From motivating me to understand the basics of electronics to helping me appreciate the intricacies of economics and finance, the professors left no stones unturned to help us achieve excellence. To top it off, the placement cell works really hard to help us get placed in the best companies. In my particular case, I am placed in the finance sector because of my keen interest in it. I would like to express my gratitude to the placement cell for the constant support and various opportunities it provides to all the students.   
                        
Agam Singh Bajaj
B.Tech, Class of 2018 (Currently working at Goldman Sachs)
                          IIITD finds itself achieving great feats in its small history thanks to its unique approach in teaching and development. At any given time on campus, you would find students working on the newest technologies and fresh ideas. The equal emphasis on horizontal and vertical growth is a fresh approach into producing a confident breed of Engineers. Then be it higher education or placements, the infrastructure in place, training and efforts by the placement cell, ensure the bright future of students. Looking back I am forever grateful to this institute for paving the way for me to the career of my choice.    
                        
Akash Deep Singh
B.Tech, Class of 2018 (Currently pursuing a PhD at UCLA)
                          The research facilities and guidance that is available at IIITD is second to none. Undergraduate students are encouraged to word on challenging research problems under the guidance of exceptionally skilled faculty members. IIITD also supports its students in any career path that they decide to pursue, be it industry, academia or entrepreneurship. The Placement Cell at IIITD is proactive in helping students find the job that fits their skill-set and aspirations perfectly. Around 100 companies visit the campus every year and offer jobs ranging all the way from core profiles like software development to non-technical jobs like consultants/analysts etc.   
                        
Sagar Khurana
B.Tech.  2015, Sorocco, India
                          IIITD is the best thing that could have happened to me. IIITD prepares you for the world; the competitive environment & continuous deadlines pushes you beyond your limits and helps you understand the value of your work. This, combined with the academic effort to push practical projects into each course, enables you to develop the required skills and develop yourself into a professional being. I have grown beyond what I could have at some other place. The people and work here have always motivated me to follow my passions and push beyond my limits to achieve the best.    
                        
Lakshit Tyagi
B.Tech.  2014, Qualcomm, India
                      In a very short span of time of its existence, IIITD has definitely become Mecca for IT enthusiasts. A well planned curriculum along with vast majority of courses and well renowned faculty guarantees high quality education. With extremely hard working and helpful Placement Cell, Institute offers vast amount of opportunities in various domains. It fills my heart with joy and pride unspeakable to be associated with the Institute of such stature. A heartiest thanks to Institute and all the people associated with it for being such a wonderful stepping stone for our careers. 
                    
Yash Sadana
M.Tech.  2016, Qualcomm, India
                    IIITD is a great spot in terms of learning and polishing the skills of an individual. Since the day 1 my learning started, the faculties put tremendous amount of efforts to make courses more industrial oriented which helps us in surviving in this competitive world. IIITD provides lots of opportunities in terms of higher studies as well as getting jobs in reputed organizations. PlaceCom team make huge amount of efforts to get better companies every year and breaking their own placement records. The efforts made by PlaceCom and faculties are remarkable . Feel blessed to be a part of IIITD.  
                  
Pulkit Arora
B.Tech.  2012, Adobe, India
                IIIT-Delhi is an exceptional place for IT enthusiasts. The variety of courses at offer here is immense. The faculty here puts in a lot of efforts to ensure high-quality education for the students, which has helped us perform well in our careers. The number of career oppurtunities you can choose from is enormous, includeing research, IT/software development, and non-tech options. I'd like to thank all the people driving this institute; without whom it wouldn't have been possible to achieve what we have today.  
              
Devyani Rohilla
B.Tech. 2012, Trident
              The best time of my whole education was when I landed up in IIITD. It has everything which is essential for a person's growth both academically and socially. The great emphasis on practical learning, industry-oriented courses and continuous learning and assessment moulded us in a way so that we can easily fit into our jobs and researches.   
            
Prafful Bansal
B.Tech. 2012, KPMG
            It gives me immense amount of pride and delight as I restrospect about the time spent at IIITD. The four years bought a complete overhaul in my personality and helped me grew both personally and professionally. The innovative curriculum & guest lectures provides you a multi dimensional learning with a mix people from both academics and the industry. I owe my heartiest thanks to Dr. Pankaj Jalote, Ms. Rashmil Mishra and the Placement Cell.  
          
Sarthak Ahuja
B.Tech. 2012, IBM-IRL
          I entered IIIT-Delhi with only a minor inclination towards computer science. Besides academia, I got ample oppurtunity to explore my interests, develop new ones and even take up roles to help others do the same. From the perspective of an 18 year old, full of curiosity and confusion, this is one of the bestplaces to be because of it's people where everyone has taught me something or the other here.   
        
Jeevan Joshi
M.Tech. 2013, Mathworks, Bangalore
        People at IIITD are enthusiastic  who work tirelessly to bring the best to the campus. It's been an absolute pleasure to be associated with a campus  that mentors and encourages one to achieve the best. As part of the M.Tech. program @ IIITD, I had the opportunity to work as teaching assistants to various courses besides being involved with Library and Placement Cell as well. My involvement with the Placement Cell has helped me develop management and communication skills, which shall certainly help me achieve my career goals. I owe my heartiest thanks to the Placement Cell @ IIITD.   
      
Ritika Jain
M.Tech. 2012, Infoedge
        The time I spent at IIITD during my masters was the best time of my entire education span.The best thing about IIITD is that students feel energetic and enthusiastic towards education and career. The faculty here has been simply amazing, always approachable and welcome any questions. The institute staff is very supportive. The relief to the rigorous schedule and hard work is provided in the end by the placement department to whom I would like to give my special thanks. I will always keep on recommending everyone to pursue education from IIITD.    
      
Srishti Gupta
M.Tech. 2011, Pursuing PhD from IIITD
        The stay was / is extremely wonderful. IIITD gave a platform to grow professionally and personally. I learned lot of new things, thanks to the guidance and efforts of our esteemed professors. The course structure and teaching methodology matches equally with top colleges / universities in the world. IIITD gave a lot of exposure into research work and an opportunity to travel abroad (US). Cheers to IIITD! 
      
Kanika Narang
B.Tech. 2008, IBM India Research Laboratory
        IIIT Delhi provided great environment for studies and conducting research. Most of the professors ensured continuous evaluation and challenging assignments to ensure thorough knowledge of the subject. The professors and even the director was very approachable and the students can interact with them on any matter. Many dedicated and active research groups were available to inculcate the practice of conducting research from the beginning.
Siddharth
B.Tech. 2008, eBay/PayPal
        IIIT-Delhi have been the most important years for my educational development, learning, professional attitude and all-round personal growth. What I cherish most about our institute is the healthy academic environment, the responsibility and freedom we are given even as 1st years, and the opportunity to build informal and congenial relation with faculty and peers. Any words of praise cannot sufficiently convey the delight our professors are. They make our institute's environment so vibrant and lively. 
      
Sumit Arora
B.Tech. 2008, Works Application
        An institute with a vibrant director, highly skilful and expert professors with an up to date global curriculum. Obviously it will be one of the best in India very soon.
Avineet Kaur
B.Tech. 2008, Analyst, KPMG
        Great professors who are always eager to share their knowledge with all the students and are ready to learn from the students. Great leadership by Professor (Dr.) Pankaj Jalote. Particularly great learning experience with Professor (Dr.) Ashish Sureka, Professor (Dr.) Richa Katyal, Professor (Dr.) Gaurav Gupta, Professor (Dr.) Astrid Kiehn and Professor (Dr.) Mayank Vatsa.  
      
Words from Academicians
Prof. John Hopcroft
Cornell University (Turing Award Winner)
                          It is great that India has created another first rate educational institution. I hope others will follow your example of striving for excellence in education and research.    
                        
Prof. Satish K. Tripathi
Provost, SUNY Buffalo
                          I am confident, given the leadership and the high quality faculty the Institute has already recruited, that IIIT-Delhi will be one of the top Institutes within a few years.    
                        
S. N. Maheshwari
Ex-Dean, IIT Delhi
                        IIIT-Delhi stands out for the planning, attention to detail, … provided the Institute does not lose sight of the objectives and goals.  
                      
Prof. Rajeev Sangal
Director, IIIT Hyderabad
                      I see IIIT-Delhi coming up in right earnest with innovative programs … also addressing all round development of the student.   
                    
Sanjeev K Aggarwal, Dean
IIT Kanpur
                    IIIT-Delhi has done an excellent job of recruiting high quality faculty in a very short time.   
                  
M. Balakrishnan
Deputy Director, IIT Delhi
                  IIIT-Delhi is championing the model of self-sustainability, which has huge potential for scalability.   
                
Krithi Ramamritham
ex-Dean, IIT Bombay
                In a short time IIIT-Delhi has brought together a strong internationally-trained multidisciplinary faculty with varied experience.  
              
Dheeraj Sanghi
Professor, Computer Science and Engineering, IIT-Kanpur
              IIIT-Delhi is the newest amongst the IIITs. Though it has been in the existence for only 3 years, it has already started making waves. It has been able to attract excellent faculty, start strong research programs, have a great curriculum, and everything else that you would want from a good institution.
            
Shubhashis Sengupta
Senior Manager and Lead, Accenture Technology Lab Research, Bangalore
            We had three interns from IIIT-Delhi working in R&D projects at Accenture Technology Labs India. All three worked sincerely, and we found them to be technically very well prepared as well as possessing adequate soft skills. They were as good as the peer group from tier-one technical institutes in India.
          
Last updated: 21-09-2023
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
