
  
Ph.D. Programs | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Ph.D. Programs
Ph.D. Program & Requirements
Computational Biology  (CB)
Computer Science and Engineering (CSE)
Electronics and Communications Engineering (ECE)
Human Centered and Design (HCD)
Mathematics (Maths)
Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH)
Specific guidelines for these programs and relevant documents and forms are available here.
                              The Ph.D. program at IIIT-Delhi is focused towards research like any other Ph.D. program - limited coursework to enhance the breadth and depth of a student, followed by focused research. Some of the key features of this program are:
                            
Being a focused program, it allows a motivated and hardworking student to finish in as early as 4 years, subject to fulfilling the degree requirements.
Following the best practices in several universities around the world, fresh BTech graduates are encouraged to apply. Neither a master's degree nor GATE is mandatory for the application process.
The institute provides attractive compensation – the stipend is Rs. 37,000 + HRA as per DST rates per month until successfully completing the comprehensive exam and Rs.42,000 + HRA as per DST rates per month since completing comprehensive exam until completion of 5th year
The institute provides support to present papers in national and international conferences.
Minimum Academic Performance Requirements
The minimum graduating CGPA is 7.5.
The minimum continuing CGPA is 7.0.
The minimum CGPA for continuing to get the scholarship component is 7.0.
The student shall not be allowed to continue in the Ph.D. program if
                              
His/her CGPA falls below 7.0.
If he/she in under warning and his/her performance is not improving in his/her academics/research/duties (research or teaching).
The student shall be issued a warning for the low performance if
                                
His/her CGPA falls below 7.0.
His/her SGPA is 7.0 or below in a first semester.
                                  The students who are not allowed to continue in the Ph.D. program may be permitted to transfer their registration to the MTech program provided they meet the conditions of continuing in the MTech program.
                              
Per Semester Load Requirements
                              A normal full time load is 12 to 20 units for all PG students. Students who are on assistantship (and are earning the remuneration portion) shall be given a relaxation of upto 4 units in the normal full time load. A student may be permitted an overload of at most 4 units in a semester, with permission from the PG committee. The students who have completed the stipulated course requirements shall register for the thesis units in multiple of 4 units (i.e. 4, 8, 12 or 16). No overload shall be permitted in the thesis unit registration. Part time students may register for any number of units lesser than the normal full-time load.
                            
Course Work Requirements
The requirement of the course work for a Ph.D. student is aimed at providing the basic academic preparation to carry out the research, and have sufficient breadth in the area. The minimum course requirement for a Ph.D. student is normally 32 units for students whose highest degree is a B.Tech. (or equivalent), and 16 for those who have an MTech (or equivalent). The PG committee may ask the students with insufficient background to do additional courses (in addition to 32/16 units). For detailed course of requirement refer PG Regulations Here.
In special cases, for students with advance standing by virtue of their academic preparedness and/or by virtue of their professional work experience, some of the course requirements may be waived. All such waivers shall be decided upon by the PG Committee and reported to the Senate.
The Ph.D. students are expected to finish their course requirements as per the timelines mentioned in PG Regulations Here.
Transfer of Credits for Courses done Outside: Students may be permitted to do academic work and courses in places of repute outside IIIT-Delhi. Based on their performance/quantum of work done and the content of the course, the PG committee may consider them equivalent to some course credits, and waive credit requirements for similar courses/projects within IIIT-Delhi. Institutions with which IIIT-Delhi has arrangements/MOU/student exchange programs, transfer of credits may also be permitted. Any such waivers/transfer is permitted only if the courses being considered have not been counted for any other degree/diploma requirement.
A Ph.D. student may be permitted to replace up to two courses done by him/her and in which he/she has obtained passing, but not good, grade. The replacement will be permitted as and when the request is made by the concerned student. In this case, the earlier course will be listed in the transcript as having been taken on “Audit”. He / She may also be permitted to do extra courses to improve the CGPA. All such permissions shall be granted by the PG committee upon requests from the students.
                            Teaching Requirements
                          
                            One of the potential career options for the research students is academics. The Ph.D. program at IIIT-Delhi aims to develop suitable teaching skills among the research students through teaching requirements. Towards this, it requires all students on financial assistantship plan of the Institute are required to take part in the teaching activities. All Ph.D. students must be TA for at least two semesters to satisfy the teaching requirements for a Ph.D. degree. Students on research assistantship will also be required to complete this requirement, though they may be assigned lighter load each semester. The teaching requirement may be waived for part-time and/or sponsored candidates.
                          
Thesis Requirements
                            All Ph.D. students irrespective of their entry category are expected to successfully complete a minimum of 56 units by thesis. In truly exceptional cases where the Ph.D. candidate is ready with a thesis before he/she has accumulated these credits, the PG committee can consider waiving off some of these units. For the purpose of grading in the thesis units registered, the progress in the thesis work shall be assessed by the thesis supervisor(s). For each semester, one S (if the performance is satisfactory) or one X (if the performance is not satisfactory) grade shall be awarded by the thesis supervisor(s). The thesis grades shall be submitted by the thesis supervisor(s) at the end of the semester.
                          
Thesis supervisor and external co-supervisor
                            The thesis work shall be done under the guidance of the Ph.D. supervisor, who shall be a faculty member of the Institute. There may be multiple supervisors. Normally, a student is expected to decide the supervisor(s) by the start of the second semester but can defer it till the end of second semester .This will be done by informing the PG Committee through a form, which shall be signed by the supervisor(s). A student can change the supervisor later – for this a formal request will have to be submitted to PG Committee and has to be signed by the old as well as the new supervisor. A student may also have external co-supervisors for the thesis. Such external co-supervisor shall be approved by the PG Committee upon a request by the student, duly approved and forwarded by the supervisor(s). The request must be accompanied by the CV/Bio or sufficient information about the proposed external co-supervisor which will allow the PGC to evaluate the suitability. Normally, the external co-supervisor should be finalized before the comprehensive and the PGC should be informed by the adviser and the student about the same.
                          
Thesis evaluation and defense
                            All Ph.D. theses will be evaluated by a panel of thesis examiners who are experts in that area, and the candidate will have to defend the thesis in front of this panel. The panel will consist of supervisor(s) of the student, and a minimum of three non-supervisor examiners, at most one of which can be from within the Institute. A thesis defense date will be fixed, after taking inputs from all examiners on the panel. The defense shall be open to all. At the end of the defense, the panel will deliberate and make an overall recommendation.
                          
Last updated: 07-03-2024
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
