

	Getting Around Taj Mahal
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
Home
How to Reach Taj Mahal in India
Taj Mahal is one of the wonders of the world. Find information how to reach Taj Mahal by Air, Rail, Road and Local Transportation in Agra, India.
By Air
The city of Taj, Agra, has its own airport that is around 7 km from the city center. Various Airlines operate flights to Agra during season time. For update information about flight please contact Tourist offices.
By Rail
There is a good network of trains connecting Agra with the rest of the country. Apart from the main railway station of Agra Cantonment, there are other two stations also, that of Raja-ki-Mandi and Agra Fort. The main trains connecting Agra with Delhi are Palace on Wheels, Shatabdi, Rajdhani, Gatimaan and Taj Express. For train detail visit - https://www.irctc.co.in, Call : 139
By Road
Agra is well connected to major cities in the country and is situated on the Golden Triangle of the Tourist Circuit (Delhi-Agra-Jaipur). It is connected to Delhi and Varanasi By NH-2, to Jaipur by NH-11 and Gwalior By NH-3. It is also connected to Delhi & Lucknow by Express ways. The major road distances are :
Bharatpur - 57 km
Delhi - 204 km
Gwalior - 119 km
Jaipur - 232 km
Kanpur - 296 km
Khajuraho - 400 km
Lucknow - 369 km
Mathura - 56 km
Varanasi - 605 km
There are regular bus services from Agra to a number of important cities. The main bus stand of ISBT and Idgah have a number of buses running for Delhi, Jaipur, Mathura, Fatehpur-Sikri, etc.
Local Transportation
After reaching the city also, you need some sort of local transport to reach Taj Mahal. You can easily get taxi, tempo, auto-rickshaw and cycle rickshaw in the city that will take you to your destination. Prepaid taxis are also available if you want to visit the various places near the city. Radio Taxis are also available 24 Hours.
The Agra Fort - Timings, Opening time, Entry timings & Visiting hours
The great Mughal Emperor Akbar commissioned the construction of the Agra Fort in 1565, A.D. although additions were made till the time of his grandson Shahjahan. The forbidding exteriors of this fort hide an inner paradise. There are a number of exquisite buildings like Moti Masjid - a white marble mosque akin to a perfect pearl; Diwan-I-Am, Diwan-I-Khaas, Musamman Burj - where Shahjahan died in 1666 A.D. Jahangir's Palace; Khaas Mahal and Shish Mahal.
Open : Sunrise to sunset every day. 
Distance about: 5.5 Kms from Agra Cantt Railway Station.
                            
Entry fee : Domestic Tourist : 50/- Foreign Tourist : 650/- 
                        
 
More About Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri - Timings, Opening time, Entry timings & Visiting hours
An epic in red sandstone. A city of yesteryears, today lost in the mists of time. Fatehpur Sikri was built by the Mughal Emperor Akbar during 1564 A.D. A sonless Akbar had gone to Sikri to seek blessings of a muslim Saint Sheikh Salim Chishti and he was blessed with a son, he in gratitude, constructed his capital city and named it Fatehpur Sikri. Later, due to shortage of water and unrest in north-west, Akbar had to abandon this city. The beautiful marble tomb of Sheikh Salim Chisti attracts thousands who seek blessings of the revered saint. Other renowned places are Diwan-I-Am, diwan-I-Khaas, Buland Darwaza, Panch Mahal, Jodha Bai's Palace and Birbal Bhavan.
Open: Sunrise to sunset every day.
Distance about : 39kms from Agra City.
                            
Entry fee : Domestic Tourist : 50/- Foreign Tourist : 610/-
                        
 
More About Fatehpur Sikri
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
