

	Tiranga Chowk -  Kheria, Agra
Home
Visiting Hours & Ticketing
Nearby AttractionsAgra Beyond Taj
Night Viewing
Do's & Don'ts 
Agra Fort
Fatehpur Sikri
Contact Us
About Taj Mahal
The Maker of The Taj
The Cause of The Taj
Creation
Overview
Architecture
The Taj Exteriors
Outlying Building
The Taj Interiors
Taj Garden
Calligraphy
The Taj Mahal Story
History of The Taj Mahal
Travel Information
Day Tours
Views of Taj
Tourist Guide Map
UNESCO - World Heritage
Heritage Walks
City Heritage Walk
Mughal Heritage Walk
The Colonial Heritage Walk
Walk Beyond The Taj
Nearby Attractions
Getting Around Taj
THE PATRIOTIC POINT
Kheria Tiranga Chowk
The spirit of patriotism is embedded in the heart of every Indian with the immense desire to serve the country in various ways. 
No indian wants to leave any opportunity to show deep love and respect towards the Tricolor therefore it is saluted in all national festivals and special programs around the world. 
The same spirit of patriotism is seen in the people of Ajit Nagar Market in Agra. 
Their every morning begins with the glow of the Tricolor and the scent of patriotism .Amid bustling traffic, members of Ajit Nagar Bazaar committee gather at Tiranga chowl< to hoist the Indian National Flag at exact 10 am which has remained a daily ritual for these businessmen since 26th January 2018,  who open their shops only after they sing the National Anthem. 
At the hoisting ceremony, the siren settles at 9:45 am.Then the guest of honour of the day is welcomed at the selfie point at 9:55 while the patriotic songs are played in the background. Then the second siren settles at 9:57 lasting for 17 seconds. 
Eventually the people gather and the flag hoisting starts at exactly 10:00 am followed by the National Anthem.
The special feature of this program is that everyday, a new chief guest is invited here to hoist the tricolor. Also, most importantly it is the only place in the whole of India where hoisting of National Anthem is done on a daily basis. 

                            A visitor's book is maintained by the market committee
inwhich the chief guests give their
                        
comments/thought/feedback about the event.

                            All honorable people belonging to Governmental
  organizations , NGO's and other social workers , who are
  Indian citizens may hoist the flag.For the same such
  dignitaries are contacted and requested by the bazaar
  committee.
                        

                            Now popular as ‘selfie-point’, the chowk echoes with
  National Anthem as all the businessmen and onlookers
  chime-in to respect the Indian flag. Ajit Nagar Bazaar
  committee has been ritually hoisting and lowering the
  national flag every day, following the guidelines given inthe
  flag code of India. The chowk at which this ceremony is
  conducted has also become a popular spot among visitors,
  where they take ‘selfies’ and get firsthand experience of
  unity and brotherhood, India has fostered through ages.
                        

                            The Ajit Nagar Bazar Committee appeals to all the Indians
  to participate in this flag hoisting program in the maximum
  number to salute and pay respect to the tricolor and to
  celebrate the feeling of oneness and patriotism.
                        
Know the Agra
City Information
Agra City Map
Tourist Places
World Heritage Sites
Official Website
Accommodation
Emergency Services
Discover Taj
Getting around Taj Mahal
Views of Taj Mahal
Day Tours
Night Viewing
Travel Information 
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Helpdesk
Taj Mahal Timing
Entry Ticket Fee
Entry To Taj Mahal
Travel Guide
Do's & Don'ts
Feedback
Genaral FAQ's
Disclaimer
Official Contacts
+91 0562 222643110:00 AM to 5:00PM
excluding declared hoiliday & sunday
+91 562 242120406:30 AM to 09:30PM
info@tajmahal.gov.in
UP Police Helpline
112
This is the official Website of Taj Mahal - Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India.

        Visitor No:. 
Content on this website is published and Managed by Department of Tourism, Government of Uttar Pradesh.

        Website designed & maintained by 
News & Announcements
