
Alumni FAQs, IIIT-Delhi
Alumni FAQs
Have a question about IIITD Alumni Portal, Alumni Association, or something else? Please refer to the below frequently asked questions about services and benefits offered to IIITD Alumni Community. For additional assistance, please contact us at alumni-admin@iiitd.ac.in  
Common alumni queries
Staying in Touch & Updating Information
How do I stay connected with IIITD?
We have an official Alumni Network on AlmaConnect - it's a great way for you to stay in touch with your alma mater, your friends and fellow batch mates and keep up with the institute news. 
To register for the Alumni Portal, please click here. You can connect using your LinkedIn or Facebook accounts, or through Gmail/other Email accounts.
How do I update my details with the institute?
Please log in to the Alumni Portal and visit your profile to update your contact information online.
If you have logged in on IIITD Alumni Portal through your LinkedIn/Facebook Account, you don't have to worry about anything. Just keep your social media profiles up to date and you are good to go. In case you have used your gmail or any other email ID to register on the portal, you can edit your profile anytime and connect it to LinkedIn/Facebook. 
How do I search for fellow alumni?
Our alumni portal is much more than just a directory of our alumni. It is a place to share news, ideas, browse content and connect with alumni across the world.
You can search for alumni based on their graduation year, current location, professions and many other filter options- simply login to the alumni portal and click on 'IIITDians' at the top left of your screen.
Is there any Alumni Association of the institute? How can I become a member?
Yes, IIIT-Delhi has an official Alumni Association approved by the Board of Governors in the year 2019. Any student who successfully obtains any degree from IIIT-Delhi automatically becomes a Life Member of the Association from the date of award of the Degree/Provisional Degree on payment of the appropriate membership fees*.
Please click here to know details of the current Governing Body of IIIT-Delhi's Alumni Association.  
*one time fee of INR 2000 included in the tuition fees.
Communications
What communications are sent to the alumni?
The Alumni Association of the institute sends out quarterly e-newsletters to the alumni. 
The institute also sends invites to events we think our alumni might be interested in. You can check out the upcoming events here. 
You can follow us on our social media for the latest updates/news on the institute- Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram.
Will my IIITD Email ID still be active or can I get information on my personal ID?
Yes, your IIITD email ID will remain active and you will receive all the communications from the institute on it. The communications are also shared via our portal on the registered IDs. Sign up here if you haven't already and don't miss out on important updates from the institute.
In case you are unable to access your IIITD email ID, please contact alumni-admin@iiitd.ac.in
Careers
As an alumnus, can I still get career and job search help?
At IIIT-Delhi, we support our alumni in all possible ways. If you are looking for a job or are interested in posting a job opportunity for fellow alumni, please visit the 'Jobs' section on our alumni portal.
In addition, the extensive job referral program on our alumni network also allows you to get referred by your fellow alumni for vacancies in their companies.
I am starting my own venture, can I contact the institute for guidance and support?
IIIT-Delhi has an Innovation & Incubation Centre, also known as IIITDIC to support & promote technology based startups and provide an ecosystem for growth by incubating them in the center. 
The centre also offers 'Alumni Fellowship Scheme' to support the graduating students and alumni of IIIT-Delhi who have ideas dangling in their mind and want to pursue this further or initiate a startup but do not have the necessary environment and financial support for its sustenance. Click here for more details about IIITDIC.
Giving Back
I would like to make a donation to IIITD. Can I do it online?
Yes, you can give a gift online. Click here to easily give a gift towards the cause you want to support. 
In case you want to make an unrestricted donation without stating any particular cause you want to support, please make a donation to the Alumni Legacy Fund. 
Thank you!
Is it possible for me to donate time- give a talk?
Yes, we encourage our alumni to share their wisdom with the new generations at IIITD through a lively discussion about their career and life experiences. If you are interested in delivering a talk on any topic which you feel students might be interested in, please write to "alumni-admin@iiitd.ac.in" and we'll help organize the talk by you for our students and alumni.
Academics/Other Resources
How can I get a copy of my transcript?
You can mail your requirements to "alumni-admin@iiitd.ac.in" and we'll connect you with the concerned person.
Can I still use the institute's library and its resources after graduation?
Yes, you can get lifetime alumni membership of IIIT-Delhi's Library by submitting a security deposit of INR 5000. For more information and how to apply for the membership, click here. 
How can I connect with institute club/s?
Click here to get all the information about IIIT-Delhi Clubs. 
Young Alumni Awards
Can I nominate myself or fellow alumni for the Young AlumnI Award?
Yes, you can nominate yourself or one or more alumni for the Young Alumni Award through this Nomination Form.
What is the eligibility for the Young Alumni Award?
● The nominee should be a graduate of IIIT-Delhi
● The nominee should have a significant record of professional accomplishment and/or public service
● The nominee should be a graduate of not more than ten years from the institute and should be under 40 years of age
When does the nomination for the award start?
The process of accepting nominations for the Young Alumni Awards starts in the month of March every year and ends on 31st May every year.
