
  
Facilities & Services | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Facilities & Services
The Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology established by Delhi Act, 2007 endowed the establishment and incorporation of a non-affiliating and teaching institute at Delhi to facilitate and promote studies, research, incubation and extension work in Information Technology and its application domains, and also to achieve excellence in these and connected fields.
With the above objectives in view, the Government of NCT of Delhi allocated 25 acres of land to enable the setting up of the IIITD permanent campus, which is located behind the Phase III Okhla Industrial Estate at a distance if 1 ½ km (approx.) from the Okhla railway station, South Delhi.
The Institute now has an auditorium and a total of 25 lecture halls of varying sizes. There is one auditorium of capacity 500, two big lecture halls of capacity 300, three lecture halls of capacity 160-180, four of capacity 120, two of capacity 60 and fourteen of capacity 25-50. There are two Faculty Housing Towers consisting of a Director's residence and 72 faculty houses. At present, there are four hostels, two for the boys having 508 & 454 beds and another two for the girls with 404 and 394 beds.
  
 There are 22 married hostel accommodations are also available for married Ph.D. students. The rooms are provided night time air conditioning in summers, and heating in winters. High-speed Internet connectivity is also available in hostels.The Sports Block also have 14 guest rooms and 2 guest suites on the second  floor . 
The Faculty and Research wing of the Academic Complex has a capacity of 50 faculty members and 8 research labs, along with the Ph.D. rooms and M.Tech. labs.
The Library and Information Center has a common study area for students on the ground floor, the library on the first floor and several labs on the upper floors.
The Dining and Recreation Centre contains the students' mess, facilities for extracurricular activities, such as a music room, art room, student council room etc.  which are spread over three floors. Cafeteria, ATM facility, stationery shop, mother dairy shop, juice shop and open space for students are available at the ground floor. 
IIIT-Delhi provides accommodation to students wishing to reside in the hostels. At present, there are three hostels, two for the boys having 372 & 394 beds and another for the girls with 164 seats. There are 22 married hostel accommodations are also available for married Ph.D. students. The rooms are provided night time air conditioning in summers, and heating in winters. High-speed Internet connectivity is also available in hostels. 
 
At present, the hostels have options of single and double occupancy rooms, all of which are air-conditioned. All hostel students are completely free to move around the campus at all times, and some of the study areas are open 24x7 for the benefit of students. In order to provide 24X7 medical cover for our Faculty, Staff and students both staying in hostel and day scholars the Institute has setup an Infirmary at Ground Floor in the girl's hostel.
The institute is equipped with a number of indoor and outdoor sports facilities. Institute new sports complex is equipped with badminton court, Table Tennis tables, Pool tables, Squash courts, Swimming pool, while Chess boards and Carom boards are available in the hostel common rooms. The institute also has a multi-purpose sports field, two tennis courts, a Football ground, a basketball court, a volleyball field with lighting facilities at the courts. Institute has also provided coach facility for students; institute self-growth activities include active participation from the students under various sports activities.
The institute’s gym offers facilities like treadmills, cross-trainer, recumbent bike, abdominal machine and dumbbells. Gym trainers are also available during morning  sessions.
There is also a Faculty Housing Tower consisting of 5 guest houses, a director's residence and 27 faculty houses.
Last updated: 06-12-2021
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
