
  
FAQs | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
FAQs
 
About IIITD
                                    ​How was IIITD created, and what is its status?
                                     
In India, a University can be created by UGC giving it a "Deemed University" status, or by an Act of Union or State Government. IIITD was created by an Act of Government of NCT Delhi (IIIT-Delhi Act, 2007). As it was created by an act of a State Legislature, it is a State University. IIIT-Delhi Act, 2007 empowers the institute/ university to grant degrees. 
                                    Is IIITD affiliated to or has any relationship to GGSIPU/DU/NSIT?
                                   
 No, IIITD is not affiliated to any of these universities; it is a State University in itself and has no academic relationship with IP University/NSIT/DTU.
                                    What is the relationship between the different IIITs?
                                      
There are five IIITs that are created by Govt of India. IIITD was created by Act of Delhi Government, and is an independent Institution. It is also a Board Governed institution. The chancellor is Hon'ble LG of Delhi, who also heads the General Council which is the apex body for IIITD.
IIIT Hyderabad and IIIT Bangalore (both are called International Institute of Information Technology) are both Deemed Universities and are independent entities.
There are 20 new IIITs being created in the PPP mode - partnership of Central Govt, State Government, and some sponsoring corporation(s). Many of them have already been started. These are now governed under a separate Act of the Central Government.  
                                    Is it a Government Institute or Private? Is IIITD recognized by AICTE, UGC, etc.?
                                
                                        IIITD is an autonomous Institute of Government of NCT Delhi, much like IITs are autonomous Institutes of Govt. of India. There is no role of any private body in the governance of IIITD, and there is no mention of words like "PPP", "Private", or "Partnerships" in the Act or the Statutes. For details on UGC, AICTE, AIU affiliations, please refer to this page.
                                      
Academics
                                    ​Is it a research or a teaching Institute?
                                 
IIITD is envisaged to be a research-led institute with degree programs at the Bachelor, Masters, and Ph.D. levels. Like the IITs, and most top universities across the world, both research as well as teaching forms the basic objectives of IIITD. 
                                    What education programs does it offer?
                                 
 
                                    Currently, it offers B.Tech. programs in  CSE, ECE, CSAM, CSD, CSSS, CSB and CSAI(Refer https://iiitd.ac.in/academics/btech for more details); M.Tech. in CSE, ECE, and CB (Refer https://iiitd.ac.in/academics/mtech for more details); Ph.D. programs in  CSE, ECE, CB, Mathematics, HCD and Social Sciences (Refer https://iiitd.ac.in/academics/phd for more details)
                                    
                                    When to apply for admission, etc?
                                 
                                    For dates, please check the prospectus and the website.    
                                    
                                      How are students evaluated during a program, and who does the evaluation?
                                 
                                        IIITD follows a semester system and uses letter grades on a 10-point scale for grading a student's performance in a course. Grading is done internally by the faculty and is based on instruments like assignments, quizzes, tests, exams, projects, labs, presentations, etc. spread throughout the semester. One of these instruments is the final exam, which takes place at the end of the semester.
                                      
                                        What is the academic load during a semester?
                                 
                                        Generally, a student in a B.Tech. program will do about 5 courses a semester. Each course requires a total effort (including lectures, tutorials, assignments, labs, etc) of about 8 to 12 hours per week. (Hence, the total academic load for a student is 40-60 hours per week.)
                                      
Management & Faculty
                                        What is the management structure of the Institute?
                                 
                                        The Institute's operational head is the Director. Overall policy-making and governance rest with the Board of Governors (BOG). The Chancellor of the Institute is Honorable Lt. Governor of Delhi, who also chairs the General Council of the Institute. Names of functionaries are on the website.
                                    
                                    What are the qualifications of its faculty?
                                 
 
                                        Due to the nature of the Institute, all its regular faculty members are expected to have Ph.D's (Ph.D. or Doctorate) from well-respected Institutes/Universities across the world. The list of current faculty members and their qualifications is available on the website
Campus & Funding
                                        Where is the campus located?
                                 
Address
                        Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology Delhi
                        Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III
                        (Near Govind Puri Metro Station)
                        New Delhi, India - 110020
                        
                                    What is the area of IIITD?
                                 
The campus is of 25 Acres. Take the Campus Tour
                                        From where is IIITD funded?
                                 
 
                                        The Government of Delhi has provided the land and is providing funds for its infrastructure development and establishment.     
                                    
Last updated: 02-12-2021
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
