
  
Our Startups | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Our Startups
 
MyWanderLust.in
                            MyWanderlust.in is a traveler community. We help travelers easily create stunning travelogues, share their travel stories and connect with other travelers.
                          
Much of the content that travelers create today, like videos, blog posts, photos is scattered everywhere. Most travelers also find it difficult to create a dedicated blog or a central place which keeps a stock of their travel stories.
                          MyWanderlust.in simplifies all that and makes it really easy to create an interactive one page travel website showcasing your travel journeys and travel interests. We also want to make it easier for you to connect with other like-minded travelers and improve travel research and discovery using the user generated content that travelers created for their travelogues.
                        
Visit us at MyWanderlust.in - Discover | Travel | Inspire
  
Studentgiri
                            It’s a portal aimed at supporting and guiding students through their preparations, ambitions and talents and proving them with the content relevant to them in the best possible way.
                          
Visit : www.studentgiri.com for more information.
  
Backpack
We know college professors have less time and a big responsiblity of spreading knowledge effectively. With Backpack, you can organize your class and communicate with students effortlessly, ultimately saving time and teaching better.You can post resources, give assignments, make announcements, start polls and much more in just a few seconds. All your students are instantly notified and you can keep track of their activity. For more information visit- https://www.usebackpack.com/
  
Zenatix
Zenatix installs energy monitoring equipment such as smart meters and controllers. They set up cloud based software for real time monitoring of your energy consumption. The data from smart meters is stored in the cloud, and can be visualized on our software. Zenatix runs advanced analytics on the collected data.They recommend energy saving measures & benchmark your consumptions. For more information visit- http://www.zenatix.com/
  
MeriAwaaz
Meri Awaaz is a mobile applicaton where we let our local netas compete to solve our civic issues through the power of our phone.
» Follow their updates, join discussions and view their report cards, assets, criminal records and more. 
» Report issues with your phone and discuss other civic issues in your area
» Find out about public (your) money spent on the issues that you face
» It is time for Issue based Politics. Follow their updates and have a discussion with them directly
Access their Information, Ask them questions or participate in already active discussions. 
For more information visit- http://meriawaazapp.com/
  
Wizters
We live in a network. We interact with the people in the network regularly. On Wizters, you do the same with the people in your network, but anonymously. You don't have to worry about names or fake names. Wizters does it very nicely for you. You are given a random contextual (and funny) name for everything you do on Wizters. Be it commenting, sharing, liking, disliking or chatting. On Wizters you can send private and anonymous messages to people in your network or outside your network. The anonymity is ensured during the conversation. 
  
Find A Way
Find A Way is a group of college students who are trying, in their own small way, to make a difference. All we have is the idea that we too can change the world, and some technological abilities that we think can help us achieve that goal.
Our organization works in close collaboration with such NGOs to help their causes gain momentum using mass media initiatives. Our various projects are designed to help NGOs gather funds better and to help them reach out to a wider audience. 
                          For more information visit- http://findaway.in/
  
Airzen
AirZen is a revolutionary pollution surveillance system that not merely monitors indoor and outdoor pollution levels but also gives personalized health risks and suggestions based on one’s health conditions, gender and age. It also warns if the high levels of a particular pollutant might interact with the personas medical conditions to make it worse. 
                          For more information visit:- https://airzen.io
  
Digital iVision Lab
Digital iVision labs (divilabs.com) started itself as a techblog. It has now become a trusted portal where people gather knowledge, ask questions and share knowledge by asking them. This website caters a monthly visit of 80000+ people, from around the world, geographical tracking says it's nearly 122 countries. Due to the quality of its article it is being followed by over 70000+ people together in social portal like Facebook, Twitter, Google plus, LinkedIn etc. It contains articles about various electronics software's and hardware products, which is also shared frequently by their own developers over the social media.
                        
  
Zailet
Zailet was build as a mission to make the world more open , connected and informed. In the world of Fake News and Biased Journalism we empower the Common Citizen by giving them a Platform where they can share their views to the Public.Zailet Covers a very large range of Topics from Science to Politics to Literature, anyone and everyone are welcome to use this Platform to share his thoughts with the whole world. For more information visit:- https://zailet.com 
  
EzySchooling
Coursify
Tag Tracker
SellbuyBook
IndiaGoes.online
EVidyalaya
FestaVesta
EnergyGrade
Kali Tutorials
Near Peer
The Chocolate Atelier
SS Solutions
Studentgiri 
MyWanderLust
Last updated: 06-12-2021
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
