
  
Facility Management Services | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Facility Management Services
 
S.No.
Designation
Name
Extension
Mobile No.
Email
1
Project cum Estate Officer
Sanjay Roy
563
-
sanjay@iiitd.ac.in
Maintenance Team
1
Facility Manager
Mayank Parashar 
560
9711279230
iiitd@avonfms.com
2
Electrical Supervisor
Mukesh Pandey
567
8010171555
inventory-facilities@iiitd.ac.in
3
Electrical Supervisor (Night Shift)
Satish Yadav 
567
9953646122
inventory-facilities@iiitd.ac.in
4
HVAC Supervisor
Ganesh
420/566
9899949873
admin-facilities@iiitd.ac.in
Complaint Management
A help desk has been set up 24X7 to receive all the complaints
 The Helpdesk can be contacted through Email, software link or mobile as follows:
                     Email Id - admin-facilities@iiitd.ac.in.
 Admin helpdesk Portal link
 Mobile No - 9868878433 and Extn 420/566.
 Whatsapp -9868878433
 Any complaints pertaining to facilities such as AC, Electricity, plumbing, housekeeping, lift etc. can be addressed to help desk.
 On receipt of the complaint the Helpdesk issues a complaint number which is sent by a response email. In case the complaint has been registered on Helpdesk mobile number the complaint number will be given verbally.
 The Helpdesk Executive thereafter assigns the complaint to the concerned individual in the FMS team.
 Complaints which requires the assistance of the Project team, external agency or OEM will be informed to FM and GM(Ops). The expected time to address such complaints will be informed to the complainant. (eg. RO, Lift, Breakages etc.).
 On completion of the work. The Helpdesk informs the complainant.
 The Complaint will be closed subject to confirmation by the complainant.
 SLA:
                     The SLA for complaints requiring urgent action such as non-availability of power supply, non-functional HVAC, Water supply disruption, clean ship etc will be will be addressed within 2 hrs.
The SLA for other complaints of general nature will be 24 Hrs.
AC and Heating Schedule for Hostel: Click Here
Cleaning Schedule
 The Housekeeping staff is available in Campus in two shifts as follows:-
                     7 to 4 pm Number of staff available 41
 11 to 8 pm Number of staff available 1
 The housekeeping staff during this period is deployed in various areas which include hostel, Dining block, Academic and lecture Block, Library , External road area, and faculty residence.
 Soft Services that is the housekeeping to maintain the cleanliness. Certain important schedules are as per following:Soft Services that is the housekeeping to maintain the cleanliness. Certain important schedules are as per following:
                   
 Hostel
Floor Cleaning
Daily
Toilet Cleaning
Daily three times
Stairs Cleaning
Daily
Common room cleaning
Daily
Lifts Cleaning
Daily
Hostel room cleaning
As required by the student once in two days
Fans and lights cleaning
Once in a month or on your request
 Other Buildings
Floor Cleaning
Daily
Toilet Cleaning
Daily three times
Glass Cleaning inside
Daily
Stairs Cleaning
Daily
Garbage Removing
Daily
Lifts Cleaning
Daily
Office cleaning
Daily/As required by faculty/staff 
Roads
Daily
Common Area
Daily
Labs/Classrooms
Daily
Fans and lights cleaning
Once in a month or on your request
facade glass cleaning outside
Once in a month
Fire Drills
Fire drill for Hostels, Academic Block and Library will be conducted once every semester. The schedule will be promulgated in advance.
Handling Medical Emergency
Emergency Contact No : 011-26907531. For details click here
In order to provide 24X7 medical facility for our Faculty, Staff and students staying in hostel and day scholars. The Institute has set up a Health Center at Ground Floor of the Student Center Building.
Qualified Medical Practitioner, MBBS, M.S. (Gen. Surgery) is available in our premises six days a week from Monday to Saturday from 1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m.
Qualified Resident Doctor, MBBS from Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi is available in the Infirmary from 9:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m and from 2:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. She can be reached at admin-infirmary@iiitd.ac.in and extension no.- 531. She will also be available for exigencies during the night.
Qualified Female Nurse is available from Monday to Saturday from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. at the infirmary. She can be reached at Ext: 531
Visitors Policy
 All Courier boys will enter through Gate No 1 and after parking their vehicle in main parking shall be directed to the security guard at the GF old building/reception for delivery of courier. No courier boy will be allowed access inside the building
 All Food delivery boys will enter through Gate No 1 and after parking their vehicle in the main parking shall be directed to reception for delivery of Food. No courier boy will be allowed access inside the building". The food items will be collected directly from delivery boy at reception only.
 Gate No 1: Visitor entry to the campus is allowed from 8 am to 10 pm through Gate No 1.
 Any visitor coming to the building complex can gain entry through Gate No 1 only after confirmation from the staff members whom the visitor intends to meet or in the case of non-availability of the member, a confirmation has to be obtained from GM(Ops). Before a visitor is allowed access, his details would be logged in the provided register along with the car numbers. Visitors will only be allowed access through entry gate.
 All visitors entering campus are under CCTV surveillance and the number plate is recorded by the camera.
 After obtaining due clearance for the access, as mentioned above, the visitors coming in self-driven cars will be requested to park their car in the Parking Area near Academic Block.
 Any visitor coming to the complex in a chauffeur driven car will be treated in the same manner as mentioned above except that the car will be allowed to drop the visitor at the intended destination but the driver will have to come back to the Parking Area and wait for the call.
 Any visitor coming with a staff member in his/her car or otherwise will be dealt with as an isolated visitor and subjected to all formalities of a visitor.
 At the time of departure, the visitor informs his departure and the time will be entered in the visitor register.
 Gate No 3: The Gate remains open from 6 am to 11 pm. The entry through this gate is restricted to following employees:
Faculty and staff
Students using pathway
Faculty visitors are allowed through gate No 3
Parking Policy
 The vehicles entering the IIITD Campus shall do so from Gate No 1. The Faculty staying inside the campus and their visitors may also use Gate No. 3.
 Resident Students are not allowed to park or use their personal vehicles inside the campus.
 Overnight parking is not allowed inside the campus except by resident faculty.
 The vehicles entering the IIITD Campus shall keep themselves to the left of the road. The campus is a No Horn Zone and a maximum speed of 20 km/hr is permissible.
 All Faculty/staff and students using their vehicles will display the sticker of IIITD. All visitors’ vehicles shall do the necessary registration at the main gate at entry.
 Parking Zone: Please ensure that the vehicles are parked at only designated places as follows:-
       Students- Designated parking is in front of Academic Block, Bay no 3.
 Faculty/Staff/Visitors- Designated parking is in front of the academic block.
 Penalty for Violation: Any vehicle reported by Faculty/Officers/SC/Security for violation of the above guidelines will be fined Rs 200/-.
Plastics Waste Management Policy
Plastics are banned on campus as per Plastic Policy of the Institute and the guidelines for ban of Plastic Use in Higher Education Institutions of the Govt. of India. As part of the "no plastic policy" followed by the institute following is implemented on campus.
 Separate large capacity bin is kept for plastic waste collection from residents. The waste is given to the authorized plastic recycler NGO’s as M/s Chintan who do not incinerate the same, further polluting the environment and are using it for creation of useful recycled products.
 No plastic water bottles are used and glass reusable type bottles are used.
 We promote use of reusable jute/cotton grocery bags rather than plastic carry bags. Thickness of plastic carry bag if at all used is from 50-75micron.
 We ensure that the university vendors use reusable utensils, straws and plates.
 Plastic E wastes is collected periodically and given to authorized recyclers 
 Students, staff and faculty both work towards achieving the mission of use of single use plastic products at all levels from home, offices. hostels etc. Canteens will be promoted to make own Plastic-Free Snacks and buy Bread in Paper Bags 
Minimization of waste generation following the 3R’s. 
The University provides the mess and canteen operators with reusable stainless or reusable plates to enable wash and use rather than generating huge waste of the plastic packed plates, cups, trays etc . 
The damaged items are recycled and reused/ placed for buyback in replacement purchases whether these are furniture or equipment till their End of life to prevent generation of waste products. 
The MSW is segregated in blue green and red bins for dry, wet and E waste and collected by authorized agencies of the SDMC for safe disposal. 
The waste sewage water is treated in 4 Nos STP's and the same is reused in irrigation, horticulture and sludge for manures to make IIITD a zero discharge campus. 
The green waste and minor food waste are treated in vermicomposting pits and in composting machine. 
Last updated: 15-03-2022
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
