
	Night View
Home
Visiting the Taj Mahal during Full Moon Nights - An Experience like no other in the World
“Only let this one tear-drop, this Taj Mahal, glisten spotlessly bright on the cheek of time, forever and ever.” - Rabindranath Tagore
The Taj Mahal is considered one of the most romantic monuments in the world. Built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan after the death of his beloved wife Mumtaz Mahal, this white marble mausoleum is considered a monument to eternal love.
Night viewing of Taj Mahal is available on five days in a month i.e. on full moon night and two nights before and two nights after the full moon.
Where to buy Taj Mahal Night Viewing Tickets?
BUY ONLINE TICKETS CLICK HERE


                             Night Viewing Timing: 20:30 hrs. to 00.30 hrs.

                             in 8 batches of max. 50 people each. Time duration for each batch is half an hour (30 minutes). Tourists have to report half an hour before the viewing time mentioned on their 

                            ticket at Shilpgram for security checks. Please note every one has to have ones i.d. during visit.

                        
Note: Tourists are advised to contact their travelagent/hotel/tourist offices/Archiological Surver of India/visit - http://www.asiagracircle.in

                            Tourists must reach at Shilpgram (near Eastern gate of Taj Mahal) half an hour before the scheduled time mentioned on their tickets for security checks.

                        
Taj Mahal Night View Ticket Price
Adult -
Rs. 510/- (Indian)
Adult -
Rs. 750/- (Foreigner)
Child (3-15 years) - both Indian & Foreigner
Rs. 500/-
TAJ MAHAL NIGHT VIEWING TICKETS
Night Viewing of the Taj Mahal is closed on every Friday & in the month of Ramzan.
The Taj Mahal, for which even the course of the river Yamuna is said to have been diverted, can best be described in the words of the Noble Laureate Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, 
"A tear drop in the face of eternity."

                            "No wonder if millions of people chose it to be amongst the World’s top wonders."
