
  
Messages  | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Messages 
  
Dr. Kiran Karnik Chairman, BOG
Though very young, IIIT-Delhi is now firmly on its way to realizing its mission of becoming a globally respected Institute for research and higher education. With its focus on recruiting highly qualified faculty from across the world, it has already emerged as one of the leading Institutes in IT, capable of developing well trained and innovative young professionals. Its graduates combine a solid technical grounding with other supporting knowledge, including soft skills. This type of talent is unique and in short supply; it will be of special interest to companies working in cutting edge technologies. In this era of knowledge, companies know the value of talent and of innovation. I invite all such corporations, working in the forefront of Information Technology, to visit IIIT-Delhi for recruitment.
                        
                           
  
Dr. Ranjan Bose Director
                      I am very pleased to invite companies to visit our Institute for considering our graduating B.Tech. and M.Tech. students for recruitment. In 10 years, IIIT-Delhi has established itself as one of the leading engineering institutes, with top-class faculty with PhDs from across the world. Our students are exposed to challenging research-based education along with a variety of cultural, sport and organizational activities on our vibrant campus. The presence of state-of-the-art research facilities, close industry-collaborations, international linkages, interdisciplinary programs and industrial training opportunities contribute to our students’ well-rounded growth.
                      
                      Our computer science UG students obtain excellent technical training which includes, besides core areas like data structures, operating systems, networking, databases, software engineering, etc. courses on advanced topics like data mining, mobile computing, information security, image processing, etc. as electives. Our ECE UG students are encouraged to take elective courses during the last two years of study which allows them to go deeper in either of the following areas - VLSI, communication engineering, signal processing, or the controls and embedded system stream. The design program at IIIT-Delhi is a good mixture of design and computing. The graduates of the program go through a rigorous curriculum of design courses like design processes and perspectives, exposure to HCI, research methods in design along with the core computing courses. The graduates possess the much-needed design skills to excel in the field of IT and allied areas. The CSAM program trains students in both mathematics, and computer science with exposure to abstract algebra, analysis, numerical methods, ODEs/PDEs, optimization, probability and statistics, as well as, core computer science courses. The B.Tech. program in Computer Sciences and Biosciences exposes our students to a wide range of topics from the foundations, capabilities and limits of computing to the application of mathematical modeling techniques to biological problems. B.Tech in Computer Science and Social Sciences trains our students to take up real-world problems at the intersection of IT and society.
                      
                      M.Tech. (CSE) students graduate with a degree in general CSE, in Artificial Intelligence, in Data Engineering, in Information Security or in Mobile Computing. M.Tech (ECE) students graduate with a degree in ECE (general), or with a specialization in VLSI and Embedded Systems (VLSI), or specialization in Communication and Signal Processing (CSP). We also have a strong M.Tech. program in Computational Biology.
                      
                      In many of our courses students carry out group projects, which help them develop abilities to work in a team. In addition, they go through a stream of courses on ‘communication’ including basic communication skills and technical communication. Overall, IIIT-Delhi graduates have solid technical skills, good communication skills, and exposure to problem solving and team work.
                    
                    We value our partnership with recruiters highly, and remain committed to making your recruiting experience productive and positive. The students graduating from this institute are motivated, bright, and very eager to perform after they graduate. I invite the recruiting organizations and graduating students to find the best match between their needs and capabilities.
                  
  
Ms. Rashmil Mishra GMCorporate RelationsPlacements and IOP
It gives us immense pleasure to extend to you a cordial invitation to participate in the Campus Placement Process at IIIT-Delhi to experience and evaluate the dexterity, competencies, skills and talents of our budding engineers and absorb them into your esteemed organizations.
                       
                          It is my sincere belief that your esteemed organization and IIIT-Delhi stand to gain immensely from this symbiotic relationship.  
                         
 Our students have the necessary skills to become a successful & valued member of any organization It would be our proud privilege to host you, and we would be most delighted to be involved in such a partnership.
                          
                            Looking forward to a mutually rewarding & fruitful association.  
                          
Last updated: 06-12-2021
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
