
  
M.Tech. (CB) Admission 2021 (DBT seats) through GAT-B Details 2021 | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
M.Tech. (CB) Admission 2021 (DBT seats) through GAT-B Details 2021
Spot Round  for M.Tech CB Admission via GAT-B 2021  Click here 
Round 2 Seat Allocation of Candidates For M.Tech. (CB) through GAT-B admission process Click here
Round 1 Seat Allocation of Candidates For M.Tech. (CB) through GAT-B admission process Click here
Merit List of Candidates For M.Tech. (CB) - through GAT-B Admission process Click here
About GAT-B
Registration for DBT supported M.Tech. (CB) seats admission through Graduate Aptitude Test – Biotechnology (GAT-B) has been started. The last date for registration is to be announced. For more details, applicants are advised to visit here. GAT-B earlier known as CEEB. 
The Graduate Aptitude Test - Biotechnology, previously Combined Entrance Examination for Biotechnology (CEEB) by JNU, is being conducted by the Regional Centre for Biotechnology on behalf of the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India. This examination is to rank the eligibility of the candidate among all applicants. 
IIIT-Delhi Admission Process
Step 1: Candidates with qualifying GAT-B mark have to apply online to IIIT-Delhi. Before applying, candidates must check the IIIT-Delhi M.Tech. (CB) eligibility which is given below. (Apply here)
Step 2: A shortlisted candidates list will be published on the IIIT-Delhi website who are eligible for M.Tech. (CB) and have a qualifying GAT-B mark. If the applicants are more, IIIT-Delhi may fix a cut-off on the basis of their previous academic record as well as GAT-B marks to limit the number of candidates to be called for the next step.
Step 3: All the shortlisted candidates will be interviewed by IIIT-Delhi.
Step 4: A merit list will be prepared on the basis of GAT-B mark and Interview score and admission offer will be made on the basis of merit.
Seats
Category
Gen
EWS
OBC(NCL)
SC
ST
DA (Gen)
Total
Numbers
5
2
4
2
1
1
15
Important Deadlines
Application deadline: 21st September 2021
Interview date:  24th September 2021 
Publication of Merit List:  25th September 2021
Round 1 allocation:  25th September 2021
Round 1 acceptance & payment of admission fee deadline:  11th October 2021
Round 2 allocation:  18th October 2021
Round 2 acceptance & payment of admission fee deadline:  24th October 2021
Last date of withdrawal:  25th October 2021
Spot Round:   5th November 2021
Eligibility Criteria
B.Tech./BE in CS/IT/Math-and-Computing or
B.Tech./BE in any other discipline
MCA
M.Sc. (Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics , Computer Science, Biochemistry, Microbiology, Biotechnology, Biophysics, Bioinformatics, Biomedical Sciences)
B.Pharm.
MBBS
BDS
For Point 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 the applicants must have done the following either during their qualifying degree or from recognized institution / online education portal:
at least one computer programming course, and at least two Mathematics courses
In addition all applicants must have 65% in qualifying exam and a qualifying GAT-B mark. The applicants must have at least 60% in all previous degrees including 10+2. Applicants who do not satisfy the above criteria will not be able to submit the application form.
Relaxation
IIIT-Delhi provides relaxation to SC, ST, OBC, PWD and CW category candidates. Specifically, candidates under these categories must have 60%. They must have at least 55% in all previous degree including 10+2. Applicants who do not satisfy the above criteria will not be able to submit the application form.
Important Note I (Conversion of CGPA to Percentage)
In the application form, only aggregate percentage shall be taken from the applicants. The applicants having grading scheme i.e. result in CGPA, will be required to convert their CGPA to percentage according to the conversion formulae prevailing in their respective university/institute. If any university/institute does not provide the conversion from CGPA to percentage, the conversion formulae in that case will be "multiplication of CGPA by 10" to derive the percentage.
In addition, the applicant has to upload a certificate on the official letter head from university/institute indicating the conversion from the CGPA to percentage. However, the applicants who don’t upload conversion certificate will be required to give an undertaking that "My university/institute does not provide conversion certificate. At any point of time, if it is found that the university/institute provides conversion certificate, my admission/studentship shall be liable for cancellation"
In the application form, only aggregate percentage will be taken from the applicants. Please read the instructions below.
If the University/Institute provides percentage as primary evaluation:
Applicants should directly fill the percentage in the form. In this case, the applicant will be required to give an undertaking form which is available here.
If the University/Institute provides CGPA or equivalent grading as primary evaluation:
The applicants having grading scheme i.e. result in CGPA or equivalent grading, will be required to convert their CGPA to percentage according to the conversion formulae prevailing in their respective university/institute. In addition, the applicant must upload a certificate on the official letter head from university/institute indicating the conversion from the CGPA to percentage.
If the applicant’ university/institute does not provide the conversion from CGPA to percentage, the conversion formulae will be “multiplication of CGPA by 10” to derive the percentage. For example, if CGPA is 7.5, the equivalent in percentage will be 7.5x10 = 75%. In this case, the applicant will be required to give an undertaking form which is available here
The COVID-19 situation has created many obstacles in our lives. IIITD understands the constraints many of our applicants are facing in getting CGPA to percentage conversion certificate issued from their respective University/Institute. To help mitigate these challenges, we have decided to allow such candidates to give a self-undertaking at the time of application submission, for which the applicant should carefully check what is the conversion rule of their University/Institute. All such candidates have to submit the duly signed conversion certificate from the University/Institute at the time of document verification, failing which their admission/studentship shall be liable for cancellation.
Download the undertaking form.
Important Note II (For candidates in Final Year)
Candidates in the final year of their programs and who expect to complete all their qualifying degree requirements before the date of registration are also eligible to apply for admissions. For shortlisting and selection purposes, their performance until the preceding semester (preceding year if their programs are year based) would be considered but their admission would be provisional, subject to their meeting the minimum eligibility criteria after their final qualifying examination results are announced.
Fees (Tuition & Hostel)
                1. M.Tech. program fee structure
              
Particulars 
Amount
Tuition Fee
50,000
Campus maintenance Fee @    rate of Rs. 15,000/- per year
30,000
Alumni fee
2,000
Security Money    (Refundable)
10,000
Total Fee payable
92,000
 
 
                Schedule of Payment
              
                (i) At the time of accepting offer of admission
              
Tuition fee Rs.50,000/- divided into two equal instalments
25,000
Campus maintenance Fee @ rate of Rs. 15,000/- per year
15,000
Alumni Fee
2,000
Security Money    (Refundable)
10,000
Total amount payable
52,000
 
                (ii) At the start of 2nd Semester
              
No payment need to be done in 2nd semester
 
                (ii) At the start of 3rd Semester
              
Tuition fee Rs.25,000/-    divided into two equal instalments
25,000
Campus maintenance Fee @    rate of Rs. 15,000/- per year
15,000
Total amount payable
40,000
 
                (iv) At the start of 4th Semester
              
No payment need to be done in 4th semester
 
                2. Hostel fee structure
              
Hostel fees will be charged semester-wise. Approx. hostel charges per semester (4 months) is given below
Program
M.Tech.
Security (refundable)
10,000/-
Mess Charges
10,000/- (approx)
Single Room
40,000/-
Double Sharing Room
30,000/-
M.Tech. Assistantship/Studentship
Students admitted will be eligible to avail monthly fellowship of Rs. 12,000/- from DBT for a maximum of 24 months from the date of starting of the classes at IIIT-Delhi. Institute will provide necessary support to the students to get the studentship. For more details click here.
Preparatory Module
IIITD has taken a unique initiative by introducing the concept of Preparatory Module for incoming M.Tech. students. The courses will be during December 2020. Those who accept the admission offer must attend the Preparatory Module.
For more details click here
Admission Enquiry
For general queries, please refer to the frequently asked questions. Please do not email us with your resume/CV. The application must be entered online. For other information, you may contact us through Email: mtech-admissions@iiitd.ac.in and Phone: +91-11-26907505 (During office hours between 9:30 am to 5:30 pm) 
Refund Policy
Timeline for Withdrawal
Amount Refundable
On or before withdrawal date, upto 5 PM
Whole fees paid after deduction of Rs.1000/-
After withdrawal date
10,000/- (only Security Deposit)
Note – To withdraw admission student needs to send an email to mtech-admissions@iiitd.ac.in
Last updated: 03-11-2021
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
