
  
BTP  | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
BTP 
Registration:
A B.Tech. Project (BTP) can be started any time after the 2nd Year.
A BTP has to spanned at least over 2 regular consecutive semesters (i.e., Monsoon and Winter) and can spanned at most 3 consecutive semesters. However, in the case of a gap due to semester leave, the student will be allowed to continue the BTP with the consent of the advisor.
BTP can be done for a total of 8 to 12 credits.
At most 8 credits can be taken in one semester (As with any course, for 4 credits, it is expected that the student will put in 10+ hours every week on the BTP).
There is no CGPA requirement for doing a BTP.
Not more than 1 BTP can be done in the whole B.Tech. tenure.
A BTP can be done under the supervision of one or more faculty members. The BTP advisor should be a regular or a visiting faculty of the institute. BTPs can be guided only by faculty members with Ph.D. Degrees.
A BTP may have internal and external co-supervisors. Such a joint co-supervision needs to be approved by Chair, UG Affairs.
Only online registration process (through ERP) is allowed. Students have to register their project and get it approved by their advisor on ERP project registration window.
Guidelines for Previous Batches
BTPs
Winter 2022
Previous
BTP Final Report
Report Template (PDF)
Report Template (LaTeX)
Cover Page Template (LaTeX)
In the case of a change of advisor, the student concerned will have to take the NOC from the current advisor and the consent from the new proposed advisor. Also, it is the responsibility of the student to inform the academic section for the same. Any such change if done without information will be considered invalid and in that case student will lose his/her BTP credits.
In a BTP, at most 2 students can be allowed to register together. In that case the students have to clearly state the distribution of the work.  The work of the two students will be evaluated individually but the thesis does not necessarily have to be different. However, if a faculty would like to engage more than 2 students on a project, then the faculty would be required to divide the project into independent modules and advertise each module as a separate BTP.
In case a student is incapable of completing the BTP, he will be able to withdraw his BTP by last date of ‘Late Drop’ and will be given a Withdrawal (W) Grade. In case, a BTP is withdrawn after the last date of Late Drop, the student shall be given a Fail (F) grade.
If a student withdraws his/her BTP before the completion of a minimum requirement of 8 credits spanned over at least 2 long semesters, then the credits earned by the student in the previous semester/s would not count towards 156 credits of graduation requirements.
Presentation / Evaluation:
Each semester the student has to register for a BTP course with the respective number of credits and with the supervisor /a co-supervisor as the course instructor. For registration for BTP, the student need to register on ERP and the advisor should approve the same on ERP.
The BTP advisors are required to constitute the BTP evaluation committee with the consent of the faculty members in the beginning of the semester.
At the end of the semester, the BTP thesis/report must be submitted. The BTP will be evaluated by a committee of (three) faculty members (one or two advisors) and two committee members who will assign the final grade.
At the end of the semester, the student has to present his BTP in the poster format and submit the BTP report to the advisor and evaluation committee members.
The student(s) can also request for an extension in the submission of final report, in case he feels that some more work is to be done.  However, the BTP committee and BTP advisor(s) will recommend BTP extension only if the student has already done good work in BTP and he/she wishes to further improve the quality of the work or to submit the work for publication.
The student seeking BTP extension will be required to submit an interim report to the BTP advisor and the BTP evaluation committee. The BTP evaluation committee may also compare the interim report with the final BTP report, which will be submitted by the student at the time of BTP evaluation.
Despite the BTP extension, students will have to present their work during the poster presentation session scheduled at the end of the semester.
For presentation, a single BTP may be given a maximum of half an hour and a joint BTP may be given a maximum of one hour. In case of a joint BTP, both the students will be required to present their BTP work.
In case of the 2nd or 3rd semester of the BTP, student(s) should give a quick review of the work done in the previous semester(s) in the beginning of the presentation.
The final BTP report has to be written using the specified LaTeX template(s).
The title page of the BTP report needs to be updated and should clearly mention the BTP category.
The structure of the final BTP report should be as specified below (any deviation from this structure requires the approval of the UGC chair which needs to be obtained before the late course drop date in the respective semester).
It is recommended that the interim BTP reports also use the same template and try to follow the same structure (items which are not yet done may be omitted).
Report for a Research project:
                        The report may be in a paper format or a technical report format (both using the LaTeX template) and must contain at least:
Motivation and research problem
Research approach and work done
Results obtained
Report for an Engineering Project:
                        The report must contain at least:
Problem for which the engineering solution is proposed and users of the proposed solution
Architecture, design, implementation, and validation of the solution
Interaction/feedback/inputs from end users on the solution
User manual / help (can be an appendix)
Report for an Entrepreneurship Project:
                        The report must contain at least:
Context and opportunity
Proposed product/service/… and value proposition
Design, architecture, implementation of the product/service
Business plan (can be an appendix)
Report for a Design Project:
                        The report must contain at least:
Problem/Need/Gap identification, definition, associated background research and the methodology followed 
Definition of target user groups and related scenarios for problem visualisation 
Design thought/thinking process, implementation, and validation of the design solution/framework 
Interaction/feedback/inputs from end users on the solution/framework and methodology followed 
In a BTP evaluation committee, one of the members (other than the BTP advisor) will be appointed as a Committee Chair, who will assign the final grade to BTP after mutual consultation. If the Chair finds it difficult to finalize the grade by consensus of the committee members or there is a conflict, then the averaging of grades will be done with the BTP advisor having the double weightage and the ceiling of the average will be considered.
For award of BTP grade, the BTP advisor(s) will upload the final BTP grade in the ERP system and the grades will be sent to examinations@iiitd.ac.in with all evaluation committee members in cc. Any grades, if not sent with cc to the evaluation committee members will not be considered.
Last updated: 17-06-2022
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
