 Student Affairs | IIIT-Delhi
Student Affairs
 The Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology established by Delhi Act, 2007 endowed the establishment and incorporation of a non-affiliating and teaching institute at Delhi to facilitate and promote studies, research, incubation and extension work in Information Technology and its application domains, and also to achieve excellence in these and connected fields.
With the above objectives in view, the Government of NCT of Delhi allocated 25 acres of land to enable the setting up of the IIITD permanent campus, which is located behind the Phase III Okhla Industrial Estate at a distance if 1 ½ km (approx.) from the Okhla Railway Station, South Delhi.
The Dining and Recreation Centre contains the students' mess, facilities for extracurricular activities, such as a music room, art room, table tennis, pool tables and a gymnasium which are spread over three floors. Cafeteria, ATM facility, stationery shop and open space for students are available at the ground floor. Life at IIIT-Delhi is more than just classes and homework’s. Several student clubs in the institute enable students to enhance talents in areas beyond academics. There are 26 active student clubs, sports committee and cultural committee to look after the sports, recreation, technical and cultural aspects needed by the students.  
 Events & News
 Hostels
 Sports & Recreation
 Student Clubs
 Student Conduct
 Student Events
 Student Governance
 Discipline and Grievance
IIIT Delhi provides accommodation to students wishing to reside in the hostels. At present, there are four hostels, three for the boys having 508, 394 & 280 beds and another for the girls with 380 seats. There are 22 married hostel accommodations are also available for married Ph.D. students. Each room in both the hostels is provided with furniture needed by a student - bed, table, chair, bookshelf, cupboard, etc. The rooms are provided night time air conditioning in summers, and heating in winters. High-speed Internet connectivity is also available in hostels. At present, the hostels have options of single and double occupancy rooms, all of which are air-conditioned. There are 4 guest rooms available at the hostels for guests visiting the institute. All hostel students are completely free to move around the campus at all times, and some of the study areas are open 24x7 for the benefit of students. In order to provide 24X7 medical cover for our Faculty, Staff and students both staying in hostel and day scholars the Institute has setup an Health Center at Ground Floor in the girl's hostel.
Each hostel also has a Hostel Committee which is an advisory body comprising the Dean (Student Affairs) and the elected student representatives as its members. The Hostel Committee also coordinates with the Mess Committee for the running of the mess. Students can relax in the evenings or on holidays, or spend their leisure time in the Common Room which is equipped with a TV, newspapers and magazines. Sports and other recreational facilities are available on the upper floors of the dining building.
The Academic Complex has enough lecture halls, labs and other required resources to foster the research environment in the institute. The Library and Information Center also has a common study area for students. 
Dr. Shobha Sundar Ram
Associate Professor (ECE), Dean of Student Affairs
    Room No. B-606 (R & D Block)
    011-26907460
      shobha@iiitd.ac.in
Dr. Ravi Bhasin
Manager (Student Affairs)
    Room No. A-207-1 (Academic Block)
    011-26907504
      ravi@iiitd.ac.in
Jagadanand Dwivedi
Junior Manager (Student Affairs)
    Room No. A-207-1 (Academic Block)
    011-26907421
      jagadanand@iiitd.ac.in
Sonal Garg
Junior Manager (Student Affairs)
    Room No. A-207-1 (Academic Block)
    011-26907553
      sonal@iiitd.ac.in
 
Last updated: 02-01-2024
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 