
  
Faculty Recruitment | IIIT-Delhi
Skip to main content
      For B.Tech. admission related queries please dial helpline numbers 011-26907 414, 483, 135, 136 or click here
-A
A
A+ 
AA
Incubation 
IHUB 
SDGs 
Library 
Directory 
Tenders 
RTI 
Giving 
Payment Portal 
Students Fee Portal 
Intranet
Forms & Docs
 

        
    Home          

        
    About IIITD          

        
    Mission and Vision          

        
    Act and Statute          

        
    Governing Body          

        
    General Council          

        
    Board of Governors          

        
    Previous General Council Members          

        
    Previous Board Members          

        
    FAQs          

        
    Graphic Identity & Logo          

        
    Media Coverage          

        
    Opinions          

        
    Newsletters          

        
    Admission          

        
    B.Tech.          

        
    M.Tech.          

        
    Ph.D.          

        
    PG Diploma          

        
    PG Diploma in DS & AI with IBM          

        
    PG Diploma in CS & AI with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    International          

        
    Fees          

        
    Fee Waiver and Fellowship          

        
    People          

        
    Administration          

        
    Faculty          

        
    Dean's Offices          

        
    Dofa          

        
    DIRD          

        
    DoSA          

        
    DoCAA          

        
    Professor of Practice          

        
    Visiting Faculty          

        
    Adjunct Faculty          

        
    B.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    M.Tech. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Ph.D. Students          

        
    Graduated          

        
    Alumni          

        
    Alumni FAQs          

        
    Alumni Awards Nomination          

        
    Academics          

        
    Academic Administration          

        
    Issue Resolution          

        
    Departments          

        
    Courses          

        
    Current AY 2023-2024          

        
    B.Tech. Programs          

        
    Program Details          

        
    Honors Program          

        
    BTP          

        
    M.Tech. Programs          

        
    Ph.D. Programs          

        
    PG Diploma Programs          

        
    PGDDSAI Program with IBM          

        
    PGDCSAI Program with Great Learning          

        
    PG Diploma DSHCS          

        
    Resources          

        
    Student Verification          

        
    12th Convocation 2023          

        
    Past Convocations          

        
    Research          

        
    Research Administration          

        
    Research Areas          

        
    Research Centres, Groups, Labs          

        
    Research News          

        
    Fellowships & Awards          

        
    Research Events          

        
    Research Projects          

        
    SRP          

        
    Consultancy Projects          

        
    FAP          

        
    SRPcumCP, FAPcumCP          

        
    Publications          

        
    Facilities & Services          

        
    ECE Labs          

        
    IT Infrastructure          

        
    Green Policy          

        
    Guest House          

        
    FMS          

        
    Health Centre          

        
    Photo Gallery           

        
    Student Affairs          

        
    AICTE Feedback          

        
    Events and Highlights          

        
    Well-Being Cell          

        
    Student Mentorship Program          

        
    Hostels          

        
    Sports and Recreation          

        
    Student Clubs          

        
    Student Welfare          

        
    Student Conduct Policy          

        
    Student Events          

        
    Student Governance          

        
    Discipline and Grievance          

        
    Dining          

        
    Placement & Outreach          

        
    Messages          

        
    Why Recruit @ IIITD?          

        
    Placement Procedures          

        
    Placement Brochure 2023-24          

        
    Past Placement Brochures          

        
    Placement Statistics 2023          

        
    Past Statistics          

        
    Our Recruiters          

        
    Batch Graduating 2024-25          

        
    Internships          

        
    Internship Statistics 2022-2023          

        
    Past Internships Statistics          

        
    Summer Internships IIITD 2024          

        
    Past Summer Internships IIITD          

        
    Summer Internships Results          

        
    Internships Details @IIITD          

        
    Industry Outreach          

        
    Modes of Industry Engagements          

        
    Contact IOP          

        
    Our Startups          

        
    Startup Fair 2023          

        
    Past Startup Fairs          

        
    Higher Studies          

        
    Past Higher Studies          

        
    Our Alumni Testimonials          

        
    Contact T&P          

        
    ICC          

        
    Jobs @IIITD          

        
    Tenure Track Faculty          

        
    Management          

        
    RA & Trainee          

        
    Project Position          

        
    JRF/SRF/Ph.D. Scholar          

        
    Teaching / PostDoc Fellow          

        
    Contact          
 
Search form
Search 
 
Faculty Recruitment
Applications are invited for tenure-track faculty positions at Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor levels. A tenure-track faculty is expected to engage heavily in research and teaching. The eligibility criteria for tenure-track faculty positions are similar as in IITs.  For an Assistant Professor position, a candidate must have a PhD  plus three years experience. However, for PhDs from a well known University/Institute (e.g. IITs/IISc/TIFR/ISI/... in India or well known research universities across the world), and a good research/academic record, the 3 years experience requirement may be waived.
The pay scale for faculty is same as in IITs. In addition, extra personal pay may be provided. All regular faculty will be provided on-campus or leased accommodation. Other benefits include initiation research grant, travel support, professional development fund, etc., and personal benefits such as health insurance, LTC, contribution to pension plan, etc.
IIIT-Delhi follows a tenure model in which an initial contract is given for 5/7 years. Before completion of initial contract, an extensive evaluation of performance of Research & Teaching is done. If the faculty member’s performance is good, he/she can expect to get promoted and tenured. 
Flier for HCD Faculty Positions
Flier for SSH Faculty Positions
Flier for CSE Faculty Positions
Flier for ECE Faculty Positions
Flier for CCB Faculty Positions
Flier for Maths Faculty Positions
Sabbatical Opportunities at IIIT-Delhi
The overall selection process is given below. Please visit the Institute website for more information, in particular the faculty page to get a sense of the faculty profile.
IIIT-Delhi cherishes and encourages gender diversity, and urges women candidates to apply for faculty positions. We are proud to have about 17% female students in our undergraduate program, and over 46% in our PG programs - which we believe is the highest in India in Technical Institutions. About 11% of our faculty is also female - while not as high as the Institute desires, it is better than most technical institutions. Almost 37% of our admin officers are women.
Senior Level Positions. At senior levels, IIIT-Delhi hopes to attract a selected few who have well established global reputation in research and development and who can take leadership for new centers, programs, etc. Applications are particularly invited from senior researchers who are looking for a suitable opportunity to establish a center in India in some specialized area, particularly interdisciplinary areas.
Visiting Positions and Sabbaticals. IIIT-Delhi's faculty are engaged in over 30 collaborations with various academic institutions and research labs across the world. The institute will like to host visitors on their Sabbatical or other programs, like the Vajra scheme. If you are interested in establishing some collaboration, please contact the faculty member you may want to work with or the Director. Senior people who are willing to spend 2 or more years and take up some leadership / administrative position are also invited to contact.
Teaching-Track Positions. To promote excellence in teaching, IIIT-Delhi has created a few teaching-track faculty positions, which are primarily targeted towards attracting outstanding teachers into the Institute, and to whom both students and faculty may look up as role-models for teaching. Teaching-track faculty members are regular faculty members in the Institute but with a different emphasis between teaching and research. They will have a higher teaching load and will be expected to engage in high quality teaching, and accordingly, will be expected to have a modest level of engagement in research. The criterion for tenure and promotion also has a higher expectation in quality teaching than research. Minimum qualifications for a teaching-track Assistant Professor is same as mentioned above. However suitable candidates with MTech/MS/ Equivalent and at least 5 years experience are also eligible, if their teaching record and reputation is outstanding.
A candidate can apply anytime as faculty applications are processed regularly. However, it is desirable to apply by March or Sept for July/Jan joining. 
Disciplines and Areas of Interest
The main disciplines of interest and the main focus areas within each discipline are given below. Recruitment is not limited to these areas only and candidates in other areas within these disciplines are also encouraged to apply.
Computer Science & Engineering, CSE
Candidates must have PhD in Computer Science, or an allied area, from a reputed institution, and a good research record and background. While candidates from all areas will be considered, the following areas are currently of special interest:
Information Security and Privacy: All aspects including Web Security, Security of Critical Infrastructure, Privacy and Security in online Social Media, Network Security, Secure Application Development, etc.
Systems, Mobile computing, Sensor Networks, networking : Including Distributed Systems, Operating Systems, Networks, Platforms, Middleware, etc.
Data Science and Engineering : Including Data Science, Databases, Data Mining, Data Visualization, Big Data, Managing Data on cloud, Data Warehousing and  Data Engineering, etc.
Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning: Including Deep Learning, Model Building, Social Media Analysis, etc.
Human Computer Interaction: Including Interaction Design, Coordination and Collaboration, Gesture based Interaction, Intelligent and Adaptive Interfaces, Interface for Mobile Devices, Speech Interfaces, Information Interfaces, Multimodal Interfaces, Human-Robot Interfaces, Computational Design, Cognition, etc.
Software Engineering and Programming Languages: Including Empirical Software Engineering, Code Analysis, Testing, Mining Software Repositories, Semantics, Language Translation, etc.
Digital Media: Including Computer Graphics, Animation, Game Development, Data Visualization, Virtual/Mixed Reality, Web Media and Social Media etc.
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics. See Computational Biology below.
Other areas: Algorithms, Theory of Computing, Computational Neuroscience, etc.
Electronics and Communication Engineering, ECE
Candidates must have PhD in EE, or an allied area, from a reputed institution, and a good research record and background. While candidates from all areas will be considered, the following areas are currently of special interest:
Circuits/Electronics: VLSI/CAD & Nano-Electronics; Mixed-Signal/ Analog circuits / RF transceivers; Low Power Electronics, 3D ICs, Multi-core Processors and New Architectures, Systems-on-chip and Network-on-chip, I/O etc.
Communications/Networks: Wireless Communication and Networks; Integration of Wired/ Wireless Networks, Applications to transportation, Energy Grids and Next Generation Networking, Information Theory and Network Science, Spectrum Policy and Management etc.
Signal/Image Processing: Multimedia Systems; Image Compression & Processing; Speech Recognition, Processing, Translation to text; Bio-Medical Imaging and Applications to Systems Biology etc.
Energy Systems and Technologies: Energy Sensing, Management, Operations, Power Electronics, Smart Grid Technologies (Communications and Control, Distributed Operations).
Embedded  Systems, Controls: IOT, Embedded Systems, Emerging Low Power/Low Cost Sensor Net Platforms, Controls with applications to Cyber-Physical Systems etc.
Computational Biology, CB
Bioinformatics: Genomics, Metagenomics, Proteomics, Next-GenSequencing, Single Cell Genomics and Personalized Medicine, RNA-seq, Genome Organization and Evolution, Comparative andFunctionalGenomics, Structural Bioinformatics,Machine Learning etc.
Biostatistics: Genomics, Metagenomics, Proteomics, Next-GenSequencing, Single Cell Genomics and Personalized Medicine, RNA-seq, Genome Organization and Evolution, Comparative andFunctionalGenomics, Structural Bioinformatics,etc.
Applied Mathematics
Candidates must have PhD in EE, or an allied area, from a reputed institution, and a good research record and background. While candidates from all areas will be considered, the following areas are currently of special interest:
Optimization: All areas of Optimization including Linear/ Non-Linear/ Integer/Dynamic/ Mathematical Programming, Combinatorial / Stochastic Optimization, Heuristics, etc.
Probability, Statistics, Data Science: Probabilistic Modeling, Statistical Learning, Monte Carlo Methods, Stochastic Processes, Information Theory, Deep Learning, etc.
Network Science: Graph Theory, Networks, Statistical Physics etc.
Scientific Computing: Numerical Methods, Finite Element Techniques, Differential Equations etc
Other areas: Algebra and Coding Theory, Number Theory, Control Theory, Combinatorics, Modeling, Mathematical Finance, etc.
Social Sciences and Humanities - for Center for IT and Society
The Department of Social Sciences and Humanities has openings for Tenure Track Assistant Professors in the following areas:
Psychology: Cognitive Neuroscience | Cognitive Psychology| Personality and Social Psychology | Organizational Psychology | Media Psychology | Experimental Psychology.
Economics: Economics of Information and/or Innovation | Game Theory and Market Design | Social and Economic Networks | Economics of Network Industries | Sharing Economies | E-Commerce | Computational & Empirical Economics (incl. Big Data applications).
Sociology/Anthropology: Media Sociology | Anthropology | Economic Sociology| Anthropology | Sociology of Consumption | Society and Computing | Social Network Analysis | Mobile & Internet User Ethnography | Knowledge Society | Globalization |Urban Sociology | Sociology of Work | Digital Creative Industries
Ethics and Politics: Applied Ethics| Moral and Political Philosophy| Ethics of Information Technology| Digital Ethics| Political Theory| etc.
Policy: we are looking for scholars with research and teaching interests in areas related to IT and social development, including: Governance and E-governance | ICT Policies | Political economy and the Internet | Internet Governance | Science and Technology policy | ICT for Development (ICT4D) | ICTs for Social Transformation | Social Informatics.
New Media: Media Analytics, Computational Social Network Analysis| Digital and Social Media | Mobile Health | Digital Literacy | Digital Creative Industries | Media Psychology | Social Data Analytics | Quantitative Research Methods | Gaming
Science and Technology Studies: we are looking for scholars with research and teaching interests in areas related to the domain of science and technology studies (STS) with a focus on Information Technology and society.
Design and Digital Media
With increasing use of Internet and IT based tools in all aspets of our lives, focus on user experience and Design and Design Thinking is increasing rapidly. Digital media is today at the heart of many aspects of design and entertainment - besides internet and mobile based applications, it also forms the heart of areas like animation, special effects, gaming, virtual reality, etc. The Institute plans to establish a group/center which will focus on both of these areas – Digital Media and Design – as they have strong synergies between them. The group will work with collegues in CS and EE, as these areas complement them richly.  Some of the areas of interest are: 
Design: Design thinking, interaction design, communication/visual/information design, new media design, computer aided design, etc.
HCI - Human Computer Interaction: All areas. 
Computer Animation, Gaming, Special Effects:All areas. 
Graphics, Multimedia, Virtual Reality: All areas
Important Dates/ Schedule
For applying: Anytime-applications processed regularly. However, best to apply by March for July joining, and by Sept for January joining. (Deadlines mentioned in the fliers are for special recruitment drives only.)
Seminars: On a mutually convenient date; often when the candidate is visiting India. E-seminars can also be arranged.
Interaction with Selection Committee:  Held regularly, a few times a year.
Application Process
For applying, send an email to faculty-applications@iiitd.ac.in. Subject of the email should be "Faculty position in CSE [or ECE, CB, Math, Digital Media and Design, IT and Society] (please mention the discipline in the subject - as mails are organized using that). Please attach the following to your email:
(i) CV with details about your education (please mention CGPA/percentage also for each degree, including class X and XII), work experience, publications, etc, as well as names of at least three references (if desired, list of references may be sent later upon request from the Institute),
(ii) a research statement giving research background, approach, research plans for the near future, etc.
(iii) a teaching statement containing teaching approach, basic/foundation courses you would like to teach, advanced courses you would like to teach or design, etc. 
(iv) external engagement plan for exploring Industry/ Government funding.
Non-Indian Nationals, or those applying for senior positions: To help us understand your expectations and motivation, please provide sufficient description of your interests in IIIT-Delhi, and what you hope to accomplish in personal terms.
Selection Process
Applications are received throughout the year. Potential candidates who want to apply later but are visiting India are specially encouraged to send an email of intent to explore possibility of a visit to IIIT-Delhi for seminar/faculty-interaction during their visit to India. From the applications received, candidates are short-listed based on education background, research record, recommendation letters, and suitability for the Institute.
The candidate (if shortlisted) is invited to give a technical seminar to the faculty and interact with faculty – for overseas candidates, this is often done when the candidate is visiting India. This may also be done through electronic media. Suggested structure of the seminar (appx 45 mts): Give a brief overview of your background, the problem areas you work in, its relevance, and overall contributions. Then describe one work in detail (like a conference presentation). Finally, end with future research work you want to pursue, and a slide on your teaching interests.
A further shortlisting is done based on the seminar/visit and the recommendation letters. The short listed candidates are invited to interact with the selection committee, which is a committee of experts. Generally, this interaction starts with a short presentation/opening statement by the candidate on his/her achievements so far and future plans followed by interaction with the committee. Suggested structure of this opening statement (8-10 mts): A slide or two about the candidate’s background, a few slides about the research contributions so far, a couple of slides on future research plans, and a slide on teaching interests.
The selection committee makes its recommendations. After the recommendations are accepted, the offer letter is issued. The candidate is generally informed within two weeks of the selection committee interaction, if he/she is selected.
Clarification about Eligibility. Even if a candidate satisfies the minimum requirement, he/she may not be short-listed for further evaluation, if he/she does not have a PhD from a premier institute and a good research record proven by publications in high impact conferences and journals. Please see the current faculty profile to get an idea of the expectations/requirements for faculty at IIIT-Delhi.
Last updated: 19-04-2023
 
 Copyright © 2021 IIIT-Delhi. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
